source/cloud-security/gcp/prerequisites/visualizing-events.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
   :description: 

Visualizing Google Cloud events on the Wazuh dashboard
======================================================

You need to enable the Google Cloud module on your Wazuh dashboard to visualize security events related to your Google Cloud services.

Perform the next steps to enable the Google Cloud Platform module on your Wazuh dashboard:

#. Navigate to your Wazuh Dashboard and click **Wazuh** > **Settings** > **Modules**.
#. Enable the **Google Cloud Platform** module in the **Security Information Management** section, as shown in the image below.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/cloud-security/gcp/gcp-module-enabling.png
      :title: 
      :alt: 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

#. Navigate to **Wazuh** > **Modules** > **Google Cloud Platform** to view Google Cloud events and analytics on the Wazuh dashboard.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/cloud-security/gcp/gcp-dashboard.png
      :title: 
      :alt: 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

Commit message:

Add monitoring Google cloud rework

source/cloud-security/gcp/prerequisites/visualizing-events.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
   :description: Learn how to enable the Google Cloud module on your Wazuh dashboard to visualize security events related to your Google Cloud services in this section of the documentation.

Visualizing Google Cloud events on the Wazuh dashboard
======================================================

You need to enable the Google Cloud module on your Wazuh dashboard to visualize security events related to your Google Cloud services.

Perform the next steps to enable the Google Cloud Platform module on your Wazuh dashboard:

#. Navigate to your Wazuh Dashboard and click **Wazuh** > **Settings** > **Modules**.
#. Enable the **Google Cloud Platform** module in the **Security Information Management** section, as shown in the image below.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/cloud-security/gcp/gcp-module-enabling.png
      :title: 
      :alt: 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

#. Navigate to **Wazuh** > **Modules** > **Google Cloud Platform** to view Google Cloud events and analytics on the Wazuh dashboard.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/cloud-security/gcp/gcp-dashboard.png
      :title: 
      :alt: 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%
