source/cloud-service/your-environment/manage-auth.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: Learn how to manage access to your Wazuh WUI: authentication and authorization, how to create and set a Wazuh admin user, and more. 

.. _cloud_your_environment_manage_wui_access:

Authentication and authorization
================================

You can use the native support for managing and authenticating users, or integrate with external user management systems.

.. note::
   
   You cannot log in to Wazuh WUI of your environment with your Wazuh Cloud account. To log in to Wazuh WUI, use the default credentials you downloaded from the Wazuh Cloud Console page or the credentials of any user you already created in Wazuh WUI.
  

Native support for users and roles
----------------------------------

The Wazuh WUI allows you to add users, create roles, and map roles to users.

- `Creating an internal user and mapping it to Wazuh`_
- `Creating and setting a Wazuh admin user`_
- `Creating and setting a Wazuh read-only user`_


Creating an internal user and mapping it to Wazuh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to create an internal user and map it to its appropriate role.

#. :ref:`Log into your WUI <cloud_wui_access>` as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

#. Click **Create internal user**, complete the empty fields with the requested information, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the appropriate role, follow these steps:
   
   #. Go to **Security**, select **Roles** to open the page, and click the name of the role selected to open the window.
   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:
   
   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Server management** > **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.
   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select the Wazuh roles that you want to map the user with.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.
  
   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh.


Creating and setting a Wazuh admin user
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a new role mapping, and give administrator permissions to the user.

#. :ref:`Log into your WUI <cloud_wui_access>` as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

#. Click **Create internal user**, complete the empty fields with the requested information, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the appropriate role, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Roles** to open the roles page.

   #. Search for the **all_access** role in the roles list and select it.

   #. Click **Actions** and select **Duplicate**.

   #. Assign a name to the new role, then click **Create** to confirm the action.

   #. On the newly created role page, select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

   .. note:: Reserved roles are restricted for any permission customizations. You can create a custom role with the same permissions or duplicate a reserved role for further customization.   

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:
   
   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Server management** > **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.
   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select ``administrator``.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.
  
   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh as *administrator*. 



Creating and setting a Wazuh read-only user
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a new role mapping, and give read-only permissions to the user.

#. :ref:`Log into your WUI <cloud_wui_access>` as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

#. Click **Create internal user**, complete the empty fields with the requested information, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the appropriate role, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Roles** to open the roles page.

   #. Click **Create role**, complete the empty fields with the following parameters, and then click **Create** to complete the task. 
     
      - **Name**: Assign a name to the role.
       
      - **Cluster permissions**: ``cluster_composite_ops_ro``

      - **Index**: ``*``

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

      - **Tenant permissions**: ``global_tenant`` and select the **Read only** option.

   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.   

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Server management** > **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.

   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:

      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select ``readonly``.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.

   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh as *read-only*. 

To add more read-only users, you can skip the role creation task and map the users to the already existing read-only role.


Integrating with external user management systems
-------------------------------------------------

You can configure Wazuh to communicate with an external user management system such as LDAP to authenticate users. Open a support ticket through the **Help** section on your Wazuh Cloud Console to perform this integration.

Commit message:

fix: missing changes related to Wazuh dashboard

source/cloud-service/your-environment/manage-auth.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: Learn how to manage access to your Wazuh WUI: authentication and authorization, how to create and set a Wazuh admin user, and more. 

.. _cloud_your_environment_manage_wui_access:

Authentication and authorization
================================

You can use the native support for managing and authenticating users, or integrate with external user management systems.

.. note::
   
   You cannot log in to Wazuh WUI of your environment with your Wazuh Cloud account. To log in to Wazuh WUI, use the default credentials you downloaded from the Wazuh Cloud Console page or the credentials of any user you already created in Wazuh WUI.
  

Native support for users and roles
----------------------------------

The Wazuh WUI allows you to add users, create roles, and map roles to users.

- `Creating an internal user and mapping it to Wazuh`_
- `Creating and setting a Wazuh admin user`_
- `Creating and setting a Wazuh read-only user`_


Creating an internal user and mapping it to Wazuh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to create an internal user and map it to its appropriate role.

#. :ref:`Log into your WUI <cloud_wui_access>` as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

#. Click **Create internal user**, complete the empty fields with the requested information, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the appropriate role, follow these steps:
   
   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, select **Roles** to open the page, and click the name of the role selected to open the window.
   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:
   
   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Server management** > **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.
   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select the Wazuh roles that you want to map the user with.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.
  
   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh.


Creating and setting a Wazuh admin user
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a new role mapping, and give administrator permissions to the user.

#. :ref:`Log into your WUI <cloud_wui_access>` as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

#. Click **Create internal user**, complete the empty fields with the requested information, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the appropriate role, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Roles** to open the roles page.

   #. Search for the **all_access** role in the roles list and select it.

   #. Click **Actions** and select **Duplicate**.

   #. Assign a name to the new role, then click **Create** to confirm the action.

   #. On the newly created role page, select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

   .. note:: Reserved roles are restricted for any permission customizations. You can create a custom role with the same permissions or duplicate a reserved role for further customization.   

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:
   
   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Server management** > **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.
   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select ``administrator``.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.
  
   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh as *administrator*. 



Creating and setting a Wazuh read-only user
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a new role mapping, and give read-only permissions to the user.

#. :ref:`Log into your WUI <cloud_wui_access>` as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

#. Click **Create internal user**, complete the empty fields with the requested information, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the appropriate role, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Indexer/dashboard management** > **Security**, and then **Roles** to open the roles page.

   #. Click **Create role**, complete the empty fields with the following parameters, and then click **Create** to complete the task. 
     
      - **Name**: Assign a name to the role.
       
      - **Cluster permissions**: ``cluster_composite_ops_ro``

      - **Index**: ``*``

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

      - **Tenant permissions**: ``global_tenant`` and select the **Read only** option.

   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.   

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, go to **Server management** > **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.

   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:

      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select ``readonly``.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.

   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh as *read-only*. 

To add more read-only users, you can skip the role creation task and map the users to the already existing read-only role.


Integrating with external user management systems
-------------------------------------------------

You can configure Wazuh to communicate with an external user management system such as LDAP to authenticate users. Open a support ticket through the **Help** section on your Wazuh Cloud Console to perform this integration.
