source/user-manual/file-integrity/index.rst, before:

.. _manual_file_integrity:

File integrity monitoring
==========================

File Integrity monitoring is the capability that allows us to know if any file has changed. The component responsible for this task is called **syscheck**. This component, compares the cryptographic checksum of a known good file against the checksum of the same file after it has been modified.

Syscheck is configured in :ref:`ossec.conf <reference_ossec_conf>`. If you want more information about the exactly configuration options go to :ref:`Syscheck <reference_ossec_syscheck>`. Usually you use the following sections: :ref:`frequency <reference_ossec_syscheck_frequency>`, :ref:`directories <reference_ossec_syscheck_directories>`, :ref:`ignore <reference_ossec_syscheck_ignore>`, :ref:`alert_new_files <reference_ossec_syscheck_alert_new_files>`


.. topic:: Contents

    .. toctree::
        :maxdepth: 1

        fim-examples
        fim-faq

How it works
------------

Syscheck is essential for the intrusion detection.

.. image:: ../../images/manual/fim/fim-flow.png
  :align: center
  :width: 80%

1. Wazuh agent scans the system and sends the checksums of the monitored files to the Wazuh manager. For this scan, we can configure:

  - **Frequency**: By default configured to run every 6 hours, but entirely configurable by the user.
  - **Real-time monitoring**: Wazuh supports realtime monitoring on servers running Windows or Linux. It's important to remark that the real time option is only configurable for directories, no single files.

2. Wazuh manager stores the checksums and looks for modifications by comparing the new checksums against the old checksums of that file or registry key. It's possible to configure syscheck to report the changes in the content of a text file (only for Linux hosts).

3. In case of an anomaly, an alert is generated.

  It's posible to handle false positives using some configuration options like ``ignore`` or with the creation of rules that controls those files that are excluded.

Alert example, generated by **syscheck**:
::

	** Alert 1460948255.25442: mail  - ossec,syscheck,pci_dss_11.5,
	2016 Apr 17 19:57:35 (ubuntu) 10.0.0.144->syscheck
	Rule: 550 (level 7) -> 'Integrity checksum changed.'
	Integrity checksum changed for: '/test/hello'
	Size changed from '12' to '17'
	Old md5sum was: 'e59ff97941044f85df5297e1c302d260'
	New md5sum is : '7947eba5d9cc58d440fb06912e302949'
	Old sha1sum was: '648a6a6ffffdaa0badb23b8baf90b6168dd16b3a'
	New sha1sum is : '379b74ac9b2d2b09ff6ad7fa876c79f914a755e1'

Commit message:

Update user manual: loganl/fim/anom/rules/policy plus conf.py for a copyright date fix

source/user-manual/file-integrity/index.rst, after:

.. _manual_file_integrity:

File integrity monitoring
==========================

File integrity monitoring is the capability that allows us to know if any file has changed. The component responsible for this task is called **syscheck**. This component compares the cryptographic checksum and other attributes of a known good file or Windows registry key against the checksum and attributes of the same after it has been modified.

Syscheck is configured in :ref:`ossec.conf <reference_ossec_conf>`. If you want more information about detailed configuration options, go to :ref:`Syscheck <reference_ossec_syscheck>`. Usually you use the following sections: :ref:`frequency <reference_ossec_syscheck_frequency>`, :ref:`directories <reference_ossec_syscheck_directories>`, :ref:`ignore <reference_ossec_syscheck_ignore>`, :ref:`alert_new_files <reference_ossec_syscheck_alert_new_files>`


.. topic:: Contents

    .. toctree::
        :maxdepth: 1

        fim-examples
        fim-faq

How it works
------------

Syscheck is an essential component of intrusion detection.

.. image:: ../../images/manual/fim/fim-flow.png
  :align: center
  :width: 80%

1. Wazuh agent scans the system and sends the checksums and attributes of the monitored files and Windows registry keys to the Wazuh manager. We can configure:

  - **Frequency**: By default, syscheck runs every 6 hours, but this is entirely configurable.
  - **Real-time monitoring**: Wazuh supports real-time file integrity monitoring on servers running Windows or Linux. Note that that the real-time option is only configurable for directories, not for single files.

2. Wazuh manager stores the checksums/attributes and looks for modifications by comparing the new values to the old values. It's possible to configure syscheck to report a diff summary of the actual changes made to text files.

3. An alert is generated if changes are detected on monitored files and/or registry keys.

  It's posible to handle false positives using configuration options like ``ignore``.  You can also create rules that profile files that are to be excluded from FIM alerts.

Alert example, generated by **syscheck**:
::

	** Alert 1460948255.25442: mail  - ossec,syscheck,pci_dss_11.5,
	2016 Apr 17 19:57:35 (ubuntu) 10.0.0.144->syscheck
	Rule: 550 (level 7) -> 'Integrity checksum changed.'
	Integrity checksum changed for: '/test/hello'
	Size changed from '12' to '17'
	Old md5sum was: 'e59ff97941044f85df5297e1c302d260'
	New md5sum is : '7947eba5d9cc58d440fb06912e302949'
	Old sha1sum was: '648a6a6ffffdaa0badb23b8baf90b6168dd16b3a'
	New sha1sum is : '379b74ac9b2d2b09ff6ad7fa876c79f914a755e1'
