README.md, before:

# Wazuh documentation

[![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-join-blue.svg)](https://wazuh.com/community/join-us-on-slack/)
[![Mailing list](https://img.shields.io/badge/email-join-blue.svg)](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wazuh)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-view-green.svg)](https://documentation.wazuh.com/)
[![Website](https://img.shields.io/badge/web-view-green.svg)](https://wazuh.com/)

Wazuh is a free, open source and enterprise-ready security monitoring solution for threat detection, integrity monitoring, incident response and compliance.

The online documentation for this project is available in this repository. Members of the Wazuh team and community users contribute to its development and daily improvement.

## Online documentation

- [Current version (4.x)](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/)
- [Legacy version (2.1)](https://documentation.wazuh.com/2.1/)

## Contribute to this project

If you want to contribute to this documentation, please read our [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) file to learn more about how to deploy a development environment and submit a pull request.

You can also join our [users mailing list](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/wazuh), by sending an email to `wazuh+subscribe@googlegroups.com`, to ask questions and participate in discussions.

## Software and libraries used

- [Python](https://www.python.org/) 3.9+
- [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/) 7.2.6
- [sphinx-tabs](https://github.com/djungelorm/sphinx-tabs) 3.4.5
- [jsmin](https://github.com/tikitu/jsmin) 3.0.1
- [sphinx-reredirects](https://gitlab.com/documatt/sphinx-reredirects) 0.1.5

### Optional software to run the alternative Pagefind search engine

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) 16+

## Copyright & License

Copyright © 2023 Wazuh, Inc.

Wazuh is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Add deprecation note to master README.md file

README.md, after:

# Wazuh documentation

⚠️ **The `master` branch is deprecated. Please use `main` instead.** ⚠️

[![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-join-blue.svg)](https://wazuh.com/community/join-us-on-slack/)
[![Mailing list](https://img.shields.io/badge/email-join-blue.svg)](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/wazuh)
[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-view-green.svg)](https://documentation.wazuh.com/)
[![Website](https://img.shields.io/badge/web-view-green.svg)](https://wazuh.com/)

Wazuh is a free, open source and enterprise-ready security monitoring solution for threat detection, integrity monitoring, incident response and compliance.

The online documentation for this project is available in this repository. Members of the Wazuh team and community users contribute to its development and daily improvement.

## Online documentation

- [Current version (4.x)](https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/)
- [Legacy version (2.1)](https://documentation.wazuh.com/2.1/)

## Contribute to this project

If you want to contribute to this documentation, please read our [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) file to learn more about how to deploy a development environment and submit a pull request.

You can also join our [users mailing list](https://groups.google.com/d/forum/wazuh), by sending an email to `wazuh+subscribe@googlegroups.com`, to ask questions and participate in discussions.

## Software and libraries used

- [Python](https://www.python.org/) 3.9+
- [Sphinx](http://www.sphinx-doc.org/) 7.2.6
- [sphinx-tabs](https://github.com/djungelorm/sphinx-tabs) 3.4.5
- [jsmin](https://github.com/tikitu/jsmin) 3.0.1
- [sphinx-reredirects](https://gitlab.com/documatt/sphinx-reredirects) 0.1.5

### Optional software to run the alternative Pagefind search engine

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) 16+

## Copyright & License

Copyright © 2023 Wazuh, Inc.

Wazuh is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
