source/installation/wazuh_server_centos.rst, before:

.. _wazuh_server_centos:

Install Wazuh manager on CentOS
===============================

Wazuh Manager and API
---------------------

1. First we'll install the Wazuh repository. Run the following command depending on your operating system:

	a) For RHEL or CentOS::

		cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo << \\EOF
		[wazuh_repo]
		gpgcheck=1
		gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/RPM-GPG-KEY-WAZUH
		enabled=1
		name=RHEL-$releasever - Wazuh
		baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/el/$releasever/$basearch
		protect=1
		EOF

	b) For Fedora::

		cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo << \\EOF
		[wazuh_repo]
		gpgcheck=1
		gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/RPM-GPG-KEY-WAZUH
		name=Fedora-$releasever - Wazuh
		enabled=1
		baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/fc/$releasever/$basearch
		protect=1
		EOF

2. Install the Wazuh packages::

	yum install wazuh-manager wazuh-api

Filebeat
--------

1. Install the GPG keys from Elastic and the Elastic repository::

	rpm --import https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

	cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/elastic.repo << EOF
	[elastic-5.x]
	name=Elastic repository for 5.x packages
	baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/yum
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
	enabled=1
	autorefresh=1
	type=rpm-md
	EOF

2. Install Filebeat::

	yum install filebeat

3. Download the settings template for Filebeat from the Wazuh repository::

	curl -so /etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/filebeat/filebeat.yml

4. Edit the file ``/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml`` and and replace *YOUR_ELASTIC_SERVER_IP* for the IP address or the hostname of the Elastic server. For example::

	output:
	 logstash:
	   hosts: ["1.2.3.4:5000"]

5. Enable and start the Filebeat service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable filebeat.service
		systemctl start filebeat.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add filebeat
		service filebeat start

.. note::
	You can get more info at the `Filebeat Installation Documentation <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/current/setup-repositories.html>`_.

Commit message:

Added SSL configuration for Filebeat and Logstash

source/installation/wazuh_server_centos.rst, after:

.. _wazuh_server_centos:

Install Wazuh manager on CentOS
===============================

Wazuh Manager and API
---------------------

1. First we'll install the Wazuh repository. Run the following command depending on your operating system:

	a) For RHEL or CentOS::

		cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo << \\EOF
		[wazuh_repo]
		gpgcheck=1
		gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/RPM-GPG-KEY-WAZUH
		enabled=1
		name=RHEL-$releasever - Wazuh
		baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/el/$releasever/$basearch
		protect=1
		EOF

	b) For Fedora::

		cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo << \\EOF
		[wazuh_repo]
		gpgcheck=1
		gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/RPM-GPG-KEY-WAZUH
		name=Fedora-$releasever - Wazuh
		enabled=1
		baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/fc/$releasever/$basearch
		protect=1
		EOF

2. Install the Wazuh packages::

	yum install wazuh-manager wazuh-api

Filebeat
--------

1. Install the GPG keys from Elastic and the Elastic repository::

	rpm --import https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

	cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/elastic.repo << EOF
	[elastic-5.x]
	name=Elastic repository for 5.x packages
	baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/yum
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
	enabled=1
	autorefresh=1
	type=rpm-md
	EOF

2. Install Filebeat::

	yum install filebeat

3. Download the settings template for Filebeat from the Wazuh repository::

	curl -so /etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/filebeat/filebeat.yml

4. Edit the file ``/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml`` and and replace *YOUR_ELASTIC_SERVER_IP* for the IP address or the hostname of the Elastic server. For example::

	output:
	 logstash:
	   hosts: ["1.2.3.4:5000"]

5. Enable and start the Filebeat service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable filebeat.service
		systemctl start filebeat.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add filebeat
		service filebeat start

.. warning::
	The default installation of Filebeat doesn't encrypt the communication. It's strongly recommended to configure Filebeat to verify the Logstash server through SSL. Please read :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

.. note::
	You can get more info at the `Filebeat Installation Documentation <https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/current/setup-repositories.html>`_.
