source/installation_guide/installing-elastic-stack/elastic_server_rpm.rst, before:

.. _elastic_server_rpm:

Install Elastic Stack with RPM packages
==========================================

The rpm packages are suitable for installation on Red Hat, CentOS and other RPM-based systems.

Preparation
-----------

1. Oracle Java JRE is required by Logstash and Elasticsearch::

	curl -Lo jdk-8-linux-x64.rpm --header "Cookie: gpw_e24=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.oracle.com%2F; oraclelicense=accept-securebackup-cookie" http://download.oracle.com/otn-pub/java/jdk/8u111-b14/jdk-8u111-linux-x64.rpm
	yum install jdk-8-linux-x64.rpm
	rm jdk-8-linux-x64.rpm

2. We will also install the Elastic repository and its GPG key::

	rpm --import https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

	cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/elastic.repo << EOF
	[elastic-5.x]
	name=Elastic repository for 5.x packages
	baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/yum
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
	enabled=1
	autorefresh=1
	type=rpm-md
	EOF

Logstash
--------

Logstash is the tool that will collect logs, parse them, and then pass them along to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage. Learn more about `Logstash <https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash>`_

1. Install the Logstash package::

	yum install logstash

2. Download the Wazuh config and template files for Logstash::

	curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh.conf
	curl -so /etc/logstash/wazuh-elastic5-template.json https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic5-template.json

3. If you are using a single-server architecture, then edit /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf, commenting out the entire input section titled "Remote Wazuh Manager - Filebeat input" and uncommenting the entire input section titled "Local Wazuh Manager - JSON file input".  This will set up Logstash to read the Wazuh alerts.json file directly from the local filesystem rather than expecting Filebeat on a separate server to forward the information in that file to Logstash.

..

4. If you are running Wazuh server and the Elastic Stack server on separate systems (distributed architecture), then it is important to configure encryption between Filebeat and Logstash.  To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

..

5. Enable and start the Logstash service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable logstash.service
		systemctl start logstash.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add logstash
		service logstash start

Elasticsearch
-------------

Elasticsearch is a highly scalable full-text search and analytics engine. More info at `Elastic <https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch>`_.

1. Install the Elasticsearch package::

	yum install elasticsearch

2. Enable and start the Elasticsearch service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
		systemctl start elasticsearch.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add elasticsearch
		service elasticsearch start

Kibana
------

Kibana is a flexible and intuitive web interface for mining and visualizing the events and archives stored in Elasticsearch. More info at `Kibana <https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana>`_.

1. Install the Kibana package::

	yum install kibana

2. Install the Wazuh App plugin for Kibana::

	/usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-plugin install https://packages.wazuh.com/wazuhapp/wazuhapp.zip

3. **Optional.** Kibana will listen only on the loopback interface (localhost) by default. To set up Kibana to listen on all interfaces, edit the file ``/etc/kibana/kibana.yml``. Uncomment the setting ``server.host`` and change the value to::

	server.host: "0.0.0.0"

4. Enable and start the Kibana service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable kibana.service
		systemctl start kibana.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add kibana
		service kibana start


Connecting the Wazuh App with the API
---------------------------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to connect the Wazuh App with the API:

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	connect_wazuh_app

Commit message:

Single host installation: Adding Logstash user to OSSEC group

source/installation_guide/installing-elastic-stack/elastic_server_rpm.rst, after:

.. _elastic_server_rpm:

Install Elastic Stack with RPM packages
==========================================

The rpm packages are suitable for installation on Red Hat, CentOS and other RPM-based systems.

Preparation
-----------

1. Oracle Java JRE is required by Logstash and Elasticsearch::

	curl -Lo jdk-8-linux-x64.rpm --header "Cookie: gpw_e24=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.oracle.com%2F; oraclelicense=accept-securebackup-cookie" http://download.oracle.com/otn-pub/java/jdk/8u111-b14/jdk-8u111-linux-x64.rpm
	yum install jdk-8-linux-x64.rpm
	rm jdk-8-linux-x64.rpm

2. We will also install the Elastic repository and its GPG key::

	rpm --import https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

	cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/elastic.repo << EOF
	[elastic-5.x]
	name=Elastic repository for 5.x packages
	baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/yum
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
	enabled=1
	autorefresh=1
	type=rpm-md
	EOF

Logstash
--------

Logstash is the tool that will collect logs, parse them, and then pass them along to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage. Learn more about `Logstash <https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash>`_

1. Install the Logstash package::

	yum install logstash

2. Download the Wazuh config and template files for Logstash::

	curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh.conf
	curl -so /etc/logstash/wazuh-elastic5-template.json https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic5-template.json

3. If you are using a single-server architecture, then edit /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf, commenting out the entire input section titled "Remote Wazuh Manager - Filebeat input" and uncommenting the entire input section titled "Local Wazuh Manager - JSON file input".  This will set up Logstash to read the Wazuh alerts.json file directly from the local filesystem rather than expecting Filebeat on a separate server to forward the information in that file to Logstash. Because Logstash user needs to read alerts.json file, please add it to OSSEC group by running::

	usermod -a -G ossec logstash

..

4. If you are running Wazuh server and the Elastic Stack server on separate systems (distributed architecture), then it is important to configure encryption between Filebeat and Logstash.  To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

..

5. Enable and start the Logstash service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable logstash.service
		systemctl start logstash.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add logstash
		service logstash start

Elasticsearch
-------------

Elasticsearch is a highly scalable full-text search and analytics engine. More info at `Elastic <https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch>`_.

1. Install the Elasticsearch package::

	yum install elasticsearch

2. Enable and start the Elasticsearch service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
		systemctl start elasticsearch.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add elasticsearch
		service elasticsearch start

Kibana
------

Kibana is a flexible and intuitive web interface for mining and visualizing the events and archives stored in Elasticsearch. More info at `Kibana <https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana>`_.

1. Install the Kibana package::

	yum install kibana

2. Install the Wazuh App plugin for Kibana::

	/usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-plugin install https://packages.wazuh.com/wazuhapp/wazuhapp.zip

3. **Optional.** Kibana will listen only on the loopback interface (localhost) by default. To set up Kibana to listen on all interfaces, edit the file ``/etc/kibana/kibana.yml``. Uncomment the setting ``server.host`` and change the value to::

	server.host: "0.0.0.0"

4. Enable and start the Kibana service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable kibana.service
		systemctl start kibana.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add kibana
		service kibana start


Connecting the Wazuh App with the API
---------------------------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to connect the Wazuh App with the API:

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	connect_wazuh_app
