source/installation_guide/installing-elastic-stack/elastic_server_deb.rst, before:

.. _elastic_server_deb:

Install Elastic Stack with Debian packages
===========================================

The deb package is suitable for Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-based systems.

Preparation
-----------

1. Oracle Java JRE is required by Logstash and Elasticsearch::

	add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java
	apt-get update
	apt-get install oracle-java8-installer

2. We will also install the Elastic repository and its GPG key::

	curl -s https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | apt-key add -
	apt-get install apt-transport-https
	echo "deb https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/apt stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-5.x.list
	apt-get update

Logstash
--------

Logstash is the tool that will collect logs, parse them, and then pass them along to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage. Learn more about `Logstash <https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash>`_

1. Install the Logstash package::

	apt-get install logstash

2. Download the Wazuh config and template files for Logstash::

	curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh.conf
	curl -so /etc/logstash/wazuh-elastic5-template.json https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic5-template.json

3. If you are using a single-server architecture, then edit /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf, commenting out the entire input section titled "Remote Wazuh Manager - Filebeat input" and uncommenting the entire input section titled "Local Wazuh Manager - JSON file input".  This will set up Logstash to read the Wazuh alerts.json file directly from the local filesystem rather than expecting Filebeat on a separate server to forward the information in that file to Logstash.

..

4. If you are running Wazuh server and the Elastic Stack server on separate systems (distributed architecture), then it is important to configure encryption between Filebeat and Logstash.  To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

..

5. Enable and start the Logstash service:


	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable logstash.service
		systemctl start logstash.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		update-rc.d logstash defaults 95 10
		service logstash start

Elasticsearch
-------------

Elasticsearch is a highly scalable full-text search and analytics engine. More info `Elastic <https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch>`_.

1. Install the Elasticsearch package::

	apt-get install elasticsearch

2. Enable and start the Elasticsearch service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
		systemctl start elasticsearch.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		update-rc.d elasticsearch defaults 95 10
		service elasticsearch start

Kibana
------
Kibana is a flexible and intuitive web interface for mining and visualizing the events and archives stored in Elasticsearch. More info at `Kibana <https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana>`_.

1. Install the Kibana package::

	apt-get install kibana

2. Install the Wazuh App plugin for Kibana::

	/usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-plugin install https://packages.wazuh.com/wazuhapp/wazuhapp.zip

3. **Optional.** Kibana will listen only the loopback interface (localhost) by default. To set up Kibana to listen all interfaces, edit the file ``/etc/kibana/kibana.yml``. Uncomment the setting ``server.host`` and change the value to::

	server.host: "0.0.0.0"

4. Enable and start the Kibana service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable kibana.service
		systemctl start kibana.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		update-rc.d kibana defaults 95 10
		service kibana start

Connecting the Wazuh App with the API
---------------------------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to connect the Wazuh App with the API:

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	connect_wazuh_app

Commit message:

Single host installation: Adding Logstash user to OSSEC group

source/installation_guide/installing-elastic-stack/elastic_server_deb.rst, after:

.. _elastic_server_deb:

Install Elastic Stack with Debian packages
===========================================

The deb package is suitable for Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-based systems.

Preparation
-----------

1. Oracle Java JRE is required by Logstash and Elasticsearch::

	add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java
	apt-get update
	apt-get install oracle-java8-installer

2. We will also install the Elastic repository and its GPG key::

	curl -s https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | apt-key add -
	apt-get install apt-transport-https
	echo "deb https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/apt stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-5.x.list
	apt-get update

Logstash
--------

Logstash is the tool that will collect logs, parse them, and then pass them along to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage. Learn more about `Logstash <https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash>`_

1. Install the Logstash package::

	apt-get install logstash

2. Download the Wazuh config and template files for Logstash::

	curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh.conf
	curl -so /etc/logstash/wazuh-elastic5-template.json https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic5-template.json

3. If you are using a single-server architecture, then edit /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf, commenting out the entire input section titled "Remote Wazuh Manager - Filebeat input" and uncommenting the entire input section titled "Local Wazuh Manager - JSON file input".  This will set up Logstash to read the Wazuh alerts.json file directly from the local filesystem rather than expecting Filebeat on a separate server to forward the information in that file to Logstash. Because Logstash user needs to read alerts.json file, please add it to OSSEC group by running::

	usermod -a -G ossec logstash

..

4. If you are running Wazuh server and the Elastic Stack server on separate systems (distributed architecture), then it is important to configure encryption between Filebeat and Logstash.  To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

..

5. Enable and start the Logstash service:


	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable logstash.service
		systemctl start logstash.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		update-rc.d logstash defaults 95 10
		service logstash start

Elasticsearch
-------------

Elasticsearch is a highly scalable full-text search and analytics engine. More info `Elastic <https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch>`_.

1. Install the Elasticsearch package::

	apt-get install elasticsearch

2. Enable and start the Elasticsearch service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
		systemctl start elasticsearch.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		update-rc.d elasticsearch defaults 95 10
		service elasticsearch start

Kibana
------
Kibana is a flexible and intuitive web interface for mining and visualizing the events and archives stored in Elasticsearch. More info at `Kibana <https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana>`_.

1. Install the Kibana package::

	apt-get install kibana

2. Install the Wazuh App plugin for Kibana::

	/usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-plugin install https://packages.wazuh.com/wazuhapp/wazuhapp.zip

3. **Optional.** Kibana will listen only the loopback interface (localhost) by default. To set up Kibana to listen all interfaces, edit the file ``/etc/kibana/kibana.yml``. Uncomment the setting ``server.host`` and change the value to::

	server.host: "0.0.0.0"

4. Enable and start the Kibana service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable kibana.service
		systemctl start kibana.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		update-rc.d kibana defaults 95 10
		service kibana start

Connecting the Wazuh App with the API
---------------------------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to connect the Wazuh App with the API:

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	connect_wazuh_app
