source/user-manual/agent-enrollment/security-options/agent-identity-verification.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: Learn more about how to register Wazuh agents on Linux, Windows, or macOS X in this section of our documentation.
  
.. _agent-identity-verification:


Agent identity verification
===========================

This method uses SSL certificates to verify that an agent is authorized to enroll in the Wazuh manager. The manager verification and the agent verification are independent of each other. However, it is possible to use a combination of both.

In this document, you will find the following information:

- :ref:`agent-identity-prerequisites`
- :ref:`agent-identity-verification-options`
    - :ref:`agent-identity-manager-preparations`
    - :ref:`agent-identity-linux-unix-endpoint`
    - :ref:`agent-identity-this-windows-endpoint`
    - :ref:`agent-identity-macos-endpoint`


.. _agent-identity-prerequisites:


Prerequisites
-------------

A certificate authority to sign certificates for the Wazuh manager and agents is needed. In the absence of an already configured certificate authority, the Wazuh manager can be used as the certificate authority by running the below command:

.. code-block:: console
     
    # openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout rootCA.key -out rootCA.pem -batch -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/O=Wazuh"


The root certificate is created and saved as the ``rootCA.pem`` file.


.. _agent-identity-verification-options:


Agent verification options
--------------------------

An SSL certificate is issued to the agent host by the CA in prerequisite 1.On attempts to enroll by the agent, the Wazuh manager verifies the certificate presented by the agent using the root certificate. Wazuh provides two Wazuh agent verification options:

- Wazuh agent verification without host validation: The certificates for the agents are issued without specifying their host name or IP address.
- Wazuh agent verification with host validation: The certificates for the agents are issued with their IP address or hostname specified as the common name.
  
The difference between these validation methods is that the certificate in the former method can be reused on multiple agents while the certificate created in the latter can only be used on the agent whose IP address or hostname was specified during certificate generation.


.. _agent-identity-manager-preparations:


Preparations on the Wazuh manager
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. On the manager, generate a CSR for the Wazuh agent:

   - Wazuh agent verification without host validation: This is done without specifying the agent IP address or hostname.

     .. code-block:: console

        # openssl req -new -nodes -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout sslagent.key -out sslagent.csr -batch

   - Wazuh agent verification with host validation: This is done by specifying the agent IP or hostname.

     .. code-block:: console

        # openssl req -new -nodes -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout sslagent.key -out sslagent.csr -subj '/C=US/CN=<agent_IP>'

   Where:

     - ``sslagent.csr`` is the CSR to be submitted to the certificate authority.
     - ``sslagent.key`` is the generated CSR private key.

#. Sign the generated agent CSR using the CA keys:

   .. code-block:: console

        # openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in sslagent.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootCA.key -out sslagent.cert -CAcreateserial


   Where:

     - ``sslagent.csr`` is the CSR to be submitted to the certificate authority.
     - ``sslagent.cert`` is the signed SSL certificate from the CSR.
     - ``rootCA.pem`` is the root certificate for the CA.
     - ``rootCA.key`` is the root certificate private key for the CA.


#. Copy the signed SSL certificate and key (``sslagent.cert`` and ``sslagent.key`` in this case) to the agent. A tool like SCP can be used to copy the certificate to the endpoints. 
#. Ensure that the ``rootCA.pem`` file is in ``/var/ossec/etc/`` on the Wazuh manager.
#. Update the ``/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf`` file with the location of the ``rootCA.pem`` file to enable the use of certificates. This is done by uncommenting the ``<auth><ssl_agent_ca>`` section and specifying the path to the ``rootCA.pem`` file on the manager.


   .. code-block:: xml
       :emphasize-lines: 3

         <auth>
            ...
            <ssl_agent_ca>/var/ossec/etc/rootCA.pem</ssl_agent_ca>
         </auth>


#. Restart the Wazuh manager service to apply the changes.

.. code-block:: console

       #systemctl restart wazuh-manager


.. _agent-identity-linux-unix-endpoint:


Linux/Unix endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following steps serve as a guide on how to enroll a Linux/Unix endpoint by using certificates for agent verification:

#. Ensure that the signed SSL certificate and key files (``sslagent.cert`` and ``sslagent.key``) for the agent have been copied to the endpoint.
#. As a root user, modify the Wazuh agent configuration file located at ``/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf`` and include the following:

    #. The Wazuh manager IP address or DNS name in the ``<client><server><address>`` section.
    #. The local path to the agent certificate and the agent key are in the ``<client><enrollment>`` section.


    .. code-block:: xml
        :emphasize-lines: 3, 7

         <client>
            <server>
               <address>MANAGER_IP</address>
            </server>
            <enrollment>
               <agent_certificate_path>CERTIFICATE_PATH</agent_certificate_path>
               <agent_key_path>KEY_PATH</agent_key_path>
            </enrollment>
         </client>



#. Restart the agent to make the changes effective.


   .. tabs::
         
   
      .. group-tab:: Systemd
   
         .. code-block:: console
      
             # systemctl restart wazuh-agent
   
   
      .. group-tab:: SysV init
   
         .. code-block:: console
      
             # service wazuh-agent restart


      .. group-tab:: Other Unix based OS

         .. code-block:: console

             # /var/ossec/bin/wazuh-control restart


#. Select the “agents” module to check for the newly enrolled agent and its connection status in the Wazuh dashboard to confirm that enrollment was successful.


.. _agent-identity-this-windows-endpoint:


Windows endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following steps serve as a guide on how to enroll a Windows endpoint by using certificates for agent verification:

The Wazuh agent installation directory depends on the architecture of the host.

- ``C:\Program Files (x86)\ossec-agent`` for 64-bit systems.
- ``C:\Program Files\ossec-agent`` for 32-bit systems.

#. Ensure that the signed SSL certificate and key files (``sslagent.cert`` and ``sslagent.key``) have been copied to the endpoint.
#. As a root user, modify the Wazuh agent configuration file located at ``“C:\Program Files (x86)\ossec-agent\ossec.conf”`` and include the following:

    #. The Wazuh manager IP address or DNS name in the ``<client><server><address>`` section.
    #. The local path to the agent certificate and the agent key are in the ``<client><enrollment>`` section.

   .. code-block:: xml
       :emphasize-lines: 3, 7     

         <client>
            <server>
               <address>MANAGER_IP</address>
            </server>
            <enrollment>
               <agent_certificate_path>CERTIFICATE_PATH</agent_certificate_path>
               <agent_key_path>KEY_PATH</agent_key_path>
            </enrollment>
         </client>



#. Restart the agent to make the changes effective.


   .. tabs::
      
      
         .. group-tab:: PowerShell (as an administrator)
      
            .. code-block:: console
         
               # Restart-Service -Name wazuh
      
      
         .. group-tab:: CMD (as an administrator)
      
            .. code-block:: console
         
               # net stop wazuh
               # net start wazuh


#. Select the “agents” module to check for the newly enrolled agent and its connection status in the Wazuh dashboard to confirm that enrollment was successful.


.. _agent-identity-macos-endpoint:


macOS endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following steps serve as a guide on how to enroll a macOS endpoint by using certificates for agent verification:

#. Ensure that the signed SSL certificate and key files (``sslagent.cert`` and ``sslagent.key``) have been copied to the endpoint.
#. As a root user, modify the Wazuh agent configuration file located at ``/Library/Ossec/etc/ossec.conf`` and include the following:

    #. The Wazuh manager IP address or DNS name in the ``<client><server><address>`` section.
    #. The local path to the agent certificate and agent key are in the ``<client><enrollment>`` section.


   .. code-block:: xml
       :emphasize-lines: 3, 7

         <client>
            <server>
               <address>MANAGER_IP</address>
            </server>
            <enrollment>
               <agent_certificate_path>CERTIFICATE_PATH</agent_certificate_path>
               <agent_key_path>KEY_PATH</agent_key_path>
            </enrollment>
         </client>



#. Restart the agent to make the changes effective.

   .. code-block:: console

      # /Library/Ossec/bin/wazuh-control restart


#. Select the “agents” module to check for the newly enrolled agent and its connection status in the Wazuh dashboard to confirm that enrollment was successful.

Commit message:

fix: replace references to old Agents section on Wazuh dashboard

source/user-manual/agent-enrollment/security-options/agent-identity-verification.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: Learn more about how to register Wazuh agents on Linux, Windows, or macOS X in this section of our documentation.
  
.. _agent-identity-verification:


Agent identity verification
===========================

This method uses SSL certificates to verify that an agent is authorized to enroll in the Wazuh manager. The manager verification and the agent verification are independent of each other. However, it is possible to use a combination of both.

In this document, you will find the following information:

- :ref:`agent-identity-prerequisites`
- :ref:`agent-identity-verification-options`
    - :ref:`agent-identity-manager-preparations`
    - :ref:`agent-identity-linux-unix-endpoint`
    - :ref:`agent-identity-this-windows-endpoint`
    - :ref:`agent-identity-macos-endpoint`


.. _agent-identity-prerequisites:


Prerequisites
-------------

A certificate authority to sign certificates for the Wazuh manager and agents is needed. In the absence of an already configured certificate authority, the Wazuh manager can be used as the certificate authority by running the below command:

.. code-block:: console
     
    # openssl req -x509 -new -nodes -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout rootCA.key -out rootCA.pem -batch -subj "/C=US/ST=CA/O=Wazuh"


The root certificate is created and saved as the ``rootCA.pem`` file.


.. _agent-identity-verification-options:


Agent verification options
--------------------------

An SSL certificate is issued to the agent host by the CA in prerequisite 1.On attempts to enroll by the agent, the Wazuh manager verifies the certificate presented by the agent using the root certificate. Wazuh provides two Wazuh agent verification options:

- Wazuh agent verification without host validation: The certificates for the agents are issued without specifying their host name or IP address.
- Wazuh agent verification with host validation: The certificates for the agents are issued with their IP address or hostname specified as the common name.
  
The difference between these validation methods is that the certificate in the former method can be reused on multiple agents while the certificate created in the latter can only be used on the agent whose IP address or hostname was specified during certificate generation.


.. _agent-identity-manager-preparations:


Preparations on the Wazuh manager
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

#. On the manager, generate a CSR for the Wazuh agent:

   - Wazuh agent verification without host validation: This is done without specifying the agent IP address or hostname.

     .. code-block:: console

        # openssl req -new -nodes -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout sslagent.key -out sslagent.csr -batch

   - Wazuh agent verification with host validation: This is done by specifying the agent IP or hostname.

     .. code-block:: console

        # openssl req -new -nodes -newkey rsa:4096 -keyout sslagent.key -out sslagent.csr -subj '/C=US/CN=<agent_IP>'

   Where:

     - ``sslagent.csr`` is the CSR to be submitted to the certificate authority.
     - ``sslagent.key`` is the generated CSR private key.

#. Sign the generated agent CSR using the CA keys:

   .. code-block:: console

        # openssl x509 -req -days 365 -in sslagent.csr -CA rootCA.pem -CAkey rootCA.key -out sslagent.cert -CAcreateserial


   Where:

     - ``sslagent.csr`` is the CSR to be submitted to the certificate authority.
     - ``sslagent.cert`` is the signed SSL certificate from the CSR.
     - ``rootCA.pem`` is the root certificate for the CA.
     - ``rootCA.key`` is the root certificate private key for the CA.


#. Copy the signed SSL certificate and key (``sslagent.cert`` and ``sslagent.key`` in this case) to the agent. A tool like SCP can be used to copy the certificate to the endpoints. 
#. Ensure that the ``rootCA.pem`` file is in ``/var/ossec/etc/`` on the Wazuh manager.
#. Update the ``/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf`` file with the location of the ``rootCA.pem`` file to enable the use of certificates. This is done by uncommenting the ``<auth><ssl_agent_ca>`` section and specifying the path to the ``rootCA.pem`` file on the manager.


   .. code-block:: xml
       :emphasize-lines: 3

         <auth>
            ...
            <ssl_agent_ca>/var/ossec/etc/rootCA.pem</ssl_agent_ca>
         </auth>


#. Restart the Wazuh manager service to apply the changes.

.. code-block:: console

       #systemctl restart wazuh-manager


.. _agent-identity-linux-unix-endpoint:


Linux/Unix endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following steps serve as a guide on how to enroll a Linux/Unix endpoint by using certificates for agent verification:

#. Ensure that the signed SSL certificate and key files (``sslagent.cert`` and ``sslagent.key``) for the agent have been copied to the endpoint.
#. As a root user, modify the Wazuh agent configuration file located at ``/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf`` and include the following:

    #. The Wazuh manager IP address or DNS name in the ``<client><server><address>`` section.
    #. The local path to the agent certificate and the agent key are in the ``<client><enrollment>`` section.


    .. code-block:: xml
        :emphasize-lines: 3, 7

         <client>
            <server>
               <address>MANAGER_IP</address>
            </server>
            <enrollment>
               <agent_certificate_path>CERTIFICATE_PATH</agent_certificate_path>
               <agent_key_path>KEY_PATH</agent_key_path>
            </enrollment>
         </client>



#. Restart the agent to make the changes effective.


   .. tabs::
         
   
      .. group-tab:: Systemd
   
         .. code-block:: console
      
             # systemctl restart wazuh-agent
   
   
      .. group-tab:: SysV init
   
         .. code-block:: console
      
             # service wazuh-agent restart


      .. group-tab:: Other Unix based OS

         .. code-block:: console

             # /var/ossec/bin/wazuh-control restart


#. Select the “Endpoints Summary” module to check for the newly enrolled agent and its connection status in the Wazuh dashboard to confirm that enrollment was successful.


.. _agent-identity-this-windows-endpoint:


Windows endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following steps serve as a guide on how to enroll a Windows endpoint by using certificates for agent verification:

The Wazuh agent installation directory depends on the architecture of the host.

- ``C:\Program Files (x86)\ossec-agent`` for 64-bit systems.
- ``C:\Program Files\ossec-agent`` for 32-bit systems.

#. Ensure that the signed SSL certificate and key files (``sslagent.cert`` and ``sslagent.key``) have been copied to the endpoint.
#. As a root user, modify the Wazuh agent configuration file located at ``“C:\Program Files (x86)\ossec-agent\ossec.conf”`` and include the following:

    #. The Wazuh manager IP address or DNS name in the ``<client><server><address>`` section.
    #. The local path to the agent certificate and the agent key are in the ``<client><enrollment>`` section.

   .. code-block:: xml
       :emphasize-lines: 3, 7     

         <client>
            <server>
               <address>MANAGER_IP</address>
            </server>
            <enrollment>
               <agent_certificate_path>CERTIFICATE_PATH</agent_certificate_path>
               <agent_key_path>KEY_PATH</agent_key_path>
            </enrollment>
         </client>



#. Restart the agent to make the changes effective.


   .. tabs::
      
      
         .. group-tab:: PowerShell (as an administrator)
      
            .. code-block:: console
         
               # Restart-Service -Name wazuh
      
      
         .. group-tab:: CMD (as an administrator)
      
            .. code-block:: console
         
               # net stop wazuh
               # net start wazuh


#. Select the “Endpoints Summary” module to check for the newly enrolled agent and its connection status in the Wazuh dashboard to confirm that enrollment was successful.


.. _agent-identity-macos-endpoint:


macOS endpoint
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The following steps serve as a guide on how to enroll a macOS endpoint by using certificates for agent verification:

#. Ensure that the signed SSL certificate and key files (``sslagent.cert`` and ``sslagent.key``) have been copied to the endpoint.
#. As a root user, modify the Wazuh agent configuration file located at ``/Library/Ossec/etc/ossec.conf`` and include the following:

    #. The Wazuh manager IP address or DNS name in the ``<client><server><address>`` section.
    #. The local path to the agent certificate and agent key are in the ``<client><enrollment>`` section.


   .. code-block:: xml
       :emphasize-lines: 3, 7

         <client>
            <server>
               <address>MANAGER_IP</address>
            </server>
            <enrollment>
               <agent_certificate_path>CERTIFICATE_PATH</agent_certificate_path>
               <agent_key_path>KEY_PATH</agent_key_path>
            </enrollment>
         </client>



#. Restart the agent to make the changes effective.

   .. code-block:: console

      # /Library/Ossec/bin/wazuh-control restart


#. Select the “Endpoints Summary” module to check for the newly enrolled agent and its connection status in the Wazuh dashboard to confirm that enrollment was successful.
