source/installation_guide/installing-wazuh-server/index.rst, before:

.. _installation:

Installing Wazuh server
=================================

There are several ways to install the Wazuh server, in order to determine which option is the most appropiate for you, please consult this table:

+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| Type                                                                   | Description                                                 |
+========================================================================+=============================================================+
| :ref:`Rpm packages <wazuh_server_rpm>`                                 | Install Wazuh using rpm packages.                           |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| :ref:`Deb packages <wazuh_server_deb>`                                 | Install Wazuh using deb packages.                           |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| :ref:`Sources <sources_installation>`                                  | Install Wazuh from source code.                             |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+


.. warning::
    The manager requires Linux or another Unix-like system.

.. topic:: Contents

    .. toctree::
       :maxdepth: 2

       packages-installation/index
       sources_installation

Commit message:

Entire Installing Wazuh server section

source/installation_guide/installing-wazuh-server/index.rst, after:

.. _installation:

Installing Wazuh server
=================================

The Wazuh manager can be installed on any Unix-like operating system, most commonly Linux.  It is generally most convenient to install it via package, if one is available for your distribution.  However, building and installing it from source is also pretty simple.  In addition to Wazuh manager, Filebeat is also available to install in convenient package form onto your Wazuh server.

+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| Type                                                                   | Description                                                 |
+========================================================================+=============================================================+
| :ref:`Rpm packages <wazuh_server_rpm>`                                 | Install Wazuh server on CentOS/RHEL/Fedora.                 |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| :ref:`Deb packages <wazuh_server_deb>`                                 | Install Wazuh server on Debian/Ubuntu.                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| :ref:`Sources <sources_installation>`                                  | Install Wazuh server from source code.                      |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+


.. topic:: Contents

    .. toctree::
       :maxdepth: 2

       packages-installation/index
       sources_installation
