source/user-manual/reference/ossec-conf/localfile.rst, before:

.. _reference_ossec_localfile:


localfile
==========

.. topic:: XML section name

	.. code-block:: xml

		<localfile>
		</localfile>

This configuration section is used to specify the collection of log data from files, Windows events, and from output of commands.

Options
-------

- `location`_
- `command`_
- `alias`_
- `frequency`_
- `only-future-events`_
- `query`_
- `label`_
- `log_format`_

location
^^^^^^^^

Specify the location of a log or wildcarded group of logs to be read. ``strftime`` format strings may be used for log file names.

For instance, a log file named ``file.log-2017-01-22`` could be referenced with ``file.log-%Y-%m-%d`` (assuming today is Jan 22nd, 2017).

Wildcards may be used on non-Windows systems. When wildcards are used, the log files must exist at the time
``ossec-logcollector`` is started. It will not automatically begin monitoring new log files.

Note that ``strftime`` format strings and wildcards cannot be used on the same entry.

+--------------------+--------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a          |
+--------------------+--------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any log file |
+--------------------+--------------+

command
^^^^^^^^

A command to be run. All output from this command will be read as one or more log messages depending on whether
command or full_command is used.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a                                              |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | any command line, optionally including arguments |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+

alias
^^^^^^^^

This is an alias to identify the command. This will replace the command in the log message.

+--------------------+------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a        |
+--------------------+------------+
| **Allowed values** | any string |
+--------------------+------------+

For example ``<alias>usb-check</alias>`` would replace:

.. code-block:: xml

   ossec: output: 'reg QUERY HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Enum\USBSTOR':

with:

.. code-block:: xml

   ossec: output: 'usb-check':


frequency
^^^^^^^^^^

The minimum time in seconds between command runs. The command will probably not run every ``frequency``
seconds exactly, but the time between runs will not be shorter than this setting.
This is used with **command** and **full_command**.

+--------------------+--------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a                            |
+--------------------+--------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | any positive number of seconds |
+--------------------+--------------------------------+


only-future-events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is for use only with the ``eventchannel`` log format.  By default, when Wazuh starts, it will read all log content from a given Windows Event Channel since Wazuh was last stopped.
Set this option to **yes** to override this behavior if desired.  Then Wazuh would only receive events that occur after the Wazuh agent is started.

+--------------------+-----------+
| **Default value**  | n/a       |
+--------------------+-----------+
| **Allowed values** | yes or no |
+--------------------+-----------+


query
^^^^^^^^

This is for use only with the ``eventchannel`` log format. It is possible to specify an XPATH query following the event
schema in order to filter the events that Wazuh will process.

+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a                                                                                                                              |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any XPATH query following the `event schema <https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa385201(v=vs.85).aspx>`_  |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

For example, the following configuration will only process events with an ID of 7040:

.. code-block:: xml

  <localfile>
     <location>System</location>
     <log_format>eventchannel</log_format>
     <query>Event/System[EventID=7040]</query>
  </localfile>

label
^^^^^

This option allows to append custom extra data into JSON event. It is available when `log_format`_ is ``json``.

It has the format ``key:value``, which means that it is necessary to include the atribute ``key`` to work properly.
Thinking in the JSON alerts, it is possible to nest labels by splitting this atribute with dots.

**Example:**

.. code-block:: xml

  <localfile>
    <location>/var/log/myapp/log.json</location>
    <log_format>json</log_format>
    <label key="@source">myapp</label>
    <label key="agent.type">webserver</label>
  </localfile>

Example JSON object from the log file:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "event": {
      "type": "write",
      "destination": "sample.txt"
    },
    "agent": {
      "name": "web01"
    }
  }

The resulting event would be:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "event": {
      "type": "write",
      "destination": "sample.txt"
    },
    "agent": {
      "name": "web01",
      "type": "webserver"
    },
    "@source": "myapp"
  }

.. note::

	If a label key existed in the source JSON it won't be included.
	We recommend to use a distinctive label key, for instance a name starting with ``@``, like ``source``.

log_format
^^^^^^^^^^^

This is the format of the log being read.

.. note::

  For most text log files that have one entry per line, you can just use syslog.


+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | syslog                                                                                                |
+--------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | syslog         | This format is for plain text files in a syslog-like format.                         |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Also can be used when the logs are single line messages.                             |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | json           | This format is to monitor JSON files in one-line format.                             |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | This option allows to insert custom extra strings into the JSON event.               |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | See also the tag `label`_.                                                           |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | snort-full     | This is used for Snort’s full-output format.                                         |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | snort-fast     | This is used for Snort's fast-output format.                                         |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | squid          | This is used for squid logs.                                                         |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | iis            | This is used for IIS logs.                                                           |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | eventlog       | This is used for the classic Microsoft Windows event log format.                     |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | eventchannel   | This is used for Microsoft Windows event logs, using the new EventApi.               |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Monitorize: standard “Windows” eventlogs and "Application and Services" logs.        |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | mysql_log      | This is used for ``MySQL`` logs. It does not support multi-line logs.                |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | postgresql_log | This is used for ``PostgreSQL`` logs. It does not support multi-line logs.           |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | nmapg          | Used for monitoring files conforming to the grepable output from ``nmap``.           |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | apache         | Apache's default log format.                                                         |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | command        | Read in arbitrary output from the command (as run by root).                          |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Command defined by the command tag.                                                  |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Each line of output will be treated as a separate log.                               |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | full_command   | Read in arbitrary output from the command (as run by root)                           |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Command defined by the command tag.                                                  |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | The entire output will be treated as a single log item.                              |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | djb-multilog   | Read files in the format produced by the multilog service logger in daemontools.     |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | multi-line     |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Allow applications that log multiple lines per event to be monitored.                |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Require the number of lines to be consistent.                                        |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | ``multi-line:`` is followed by the number of lines in each log entry.                |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Each line will be combined with the previous lines until all lines are gathered.     |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | There may be multiple timestamps in a finalized event.                               |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | The format is: <log_format>multi-line: NUMBER</log_format>                           |
+--------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. warning::

	The eventchannel log format cannot be used on Windows agents older than Vista since they do not produce that kind of log.

.. warning::

	Agents will ignore ``command`` and ``full_command`` log sources unless they have ``logcollector.remote_commands=1`` set in their **/var/ossec/etc/internal_options.conf** or **/var/ossec/etc/local_internal_options.conf** file. This is a security precaution since it may not be permissible in all environments to allow the Wazuh manager to run arbitrary commands on agents in their root security context.


Example:

Multi-line log message in original log file:

.. code-block:: console

	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line one
	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line two
	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line four
	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line three
	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line five

Log message as analyzed by ossec-analysisd:

.. code-block:: console

	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line one Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line two Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line three Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line four Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line five

Example of configuration
------------------------

Linux configuration:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- For monitor log files -->
    <localfile>
      <log_format>syslog</log_format>
      <location>/var/log/syslog</location>
      <expect>srcip</expect>
      <timeout_allowed>yes</timeout_allowed>
    </command>

    <!-- For monitor commands output -->
    <localfile>
      <log_format>command</log_format>
      <command>df -P</command>
      <frequency>360</frequency>
    </localfile>

Windows configuration:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- For monitor Windows eventchannel -->
    <localfile>
      <location>Security</location>
      <log_format>eventchannel</log_format>
      <only-future-events>yes</only-future-events>
      <query>Event/System[EventID != 5145 and EventID != 5156]</query>
    </localfile>

Commit message:

Update user-manual with several changes in Wazuh 3.0

source/user-manual/reference/ossec-conf/localfile.rst, after:

.. _reference_ossec_localfile:


localfile
==========

.. topic:: XML section name

	.. code-block:: xml

		<localfile>
		</localfile>

This configuration section is used to specify the collection of log data from files, Windows events, and from output of commands.

Options
-------

- `location`_
- `command`_
- `alias`_
- `frequency`_
- `only-future-events`_
- `query`_
- `label`_
- `log_format`_

location
^^^^^^^^

Specify the location of a log or wildcarded group of logs to be read. ``strftime`` format strings may be used for log file names.

For instance, a log file named ``file.log-2017-01-22`` could be referenced with ``file.log-%Y-%m-%d`` (assuming today is Jan 22nd, 2017).

Wildcards may be used on non-Windows systems. When wildcards are used, the log files must exist at the time
``ossec-logcollector`` is started. It will not automatically begin monitoring new log files.

Note that ``strftime`` format strings and wildcards cannot be used on the same entry.

+--------------------+--------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a          |
+--------------------+--------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any log file |
+--------------------+--------------+

command
^^^^^^^^

A command to be run. All output from this command will be read as one or more log messages depending on whether
command or full_command is used.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a                                              |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | any command line, optionally including arguments |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+

alias
^^^^^^^^

This is an alias to identify the command. This will replace the command in the log message.

+--------------------+------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a        |
+--------------------+------------+
| **Allowed values** | any string |
+--------------------+------------+

For example ``<alias>usb-check</alias>`` would replace:

.. code-block:: xml

   ossec: output: 'reg QUERY HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Enum\USBSTOR':

with:

.. code-block:: xml

   ossec: output: 'usb-check':


frequency
^^^^^^^^^^

The minimum time in seconds between command runs. The command will probably not run every ``frequency``
seconds exactly, but the time between runs will not be shorter than this setting.
This is used with **command** and **full_command**.

+--------------------+--------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a                            |
+--------------------+--------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | any positive number of seconds |
+--------------------+--------------------------------+


only-future-events
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is for use only with the ``eventchannel`` log format.  By default, when Wazuh starts, it will read all log content from a given Windows Event Channel since Wazuh was last stopped.
Set this option to **yes** to override this behavior if desired.  Then Wazuh would only receive events that occur after the Wazuh agent is started.

+--------------------+-----------+
| **Default value**  | n/a       |
+--------------------+-----------+
| **Allowed values** | yes or no |
+--------------------+-----------+


query
^^^^^^^^

This is for use only with the ``eventchannel`` log format. It is possible to specify an XPATH query following the event
schema in order to filter the events that Wazuh will process.

+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | n/a                                                                                                                              |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any XPATH query following the `event schema <https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/aa385201(v=vs.85).aspx>`_  |
+--------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

For example, the following configuration will only process events with an ID of 7040:

.. code-block:: xml

  <localfile>
     <location>System</location>
     <log_format>eventchannel</log_format>
     <query>Event/System[EventID=7040]</query>
  </localfile>

label
^^^^^

  .. versionadded:: 3.0

This option allows to append custom extra data into JSON event. It is available when `log_format`_ is ``json``.

It has the format ``key:value``, which means that it is necessary to include the atribute ``key`` to work properly.
Thinking in the JSON alerts, it is possible to nest labels by splitting this atribute with dots.

**Usage example:**

For example, this option could be used to distinguish the source of each log when monitoring several files simultaneously. This is done as shown below.

.. code-block:: xml

  <localfile>
    <location>/var/log/myapp/log.json</location>
    <log_format>json</log_format>
    <label key="@source">myapp</label>
    <label key="agent.type">webserver</label>
  </localfile>

Example JSON object from the log file:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "event": {
      "type": "write",
      "destination": "sample.txt"
    },
    "agent": {
      "name": "web01"
    }
  }

The resulting event would be:

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "event": {
      "type": "write",
      "destination": "sample.txt"
    },
    "agent": {
      "name": "web01",
      "type": "webserver"
    },
    "@source": "myapp"
  }

.. note::

	If a label key existed in the source JSON it won't be included.
	We recommend to use a distinctive label key, for instance a name starting with ``@``, like ``source``.

log_format
^^^^^^^^^^^

This is the format of the log being read.

.. note::

  For most text log files that have one entry per line, you can just use syslog.


+--------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default value**  | syslog                                                                                                |
+--------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | syslog         | This format is for plain text files in a syslog-like format.                         |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Also can be used when the logs are single line messages.                             |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | json           | This format is to monitor JSON files in one-line format.                             |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | This option allows to insert custom extra strings into the JSON event.               |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | See also the tag `label`_.                                                           |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | .. versionadded:: 3.0                                                                |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | snort-full     | This is used for Snort’s full-output format.                                         |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | snort-fast     | This is used for Snort's fast-output format.                                         |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | squid          | This is used for squid logs.                                                         |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | iis            | This is used for IIS logs.                                                           |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | eventlog       | This is used for the classic Microsoft Windows event log format.                     |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | eventchannel   | This is used for Microsoft Windows event logs, using the new EventApi.               |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Monitorize: standard “Windows” eventlogs and "Application and Services" logs.        |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | mysql_log      | This is used for ``MySQL`` logs. It does not support multi-line logs.                |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | postgresql_log | This is used for ``PostgreSQL`` logs. It does not support multi-line logs.           |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | nmapg          | Used for monitoring files conforming to the grepable output from ``nmap``.           |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | apache         | Apache's default log format.                                                         |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | command        | Read in arbitrary output from the command (as run by root).                          |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Command defined by the command tag.                                                  |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Each line of output will be treated as a separate log.                               |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | full_command   | Read in arbitrary output from the command (as run by root)                           |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Command defined by the command tag.                                                  |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | The entire output will be treated as a single log item.                              |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | djb-multilog   | Read files in the format produced by the multilog service logger in daemontools.     |
+                    +----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | multi-line     |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Allow applications that log multiple lines per event to be monitored.                |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Require the number of lines to be consistent.                                        |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | ``multi-line:`` is followed by the number of lines in each log entry.                |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | Each line will be combined with the previous lines until all lines are gathered.     |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | There may be multiple timestamps in a finalized event.                               |
|                    |                |                                                                                      |
|                    |                | The format is: <log_format>multi-line: NUMBER</log_format>                           |
+--------------------+----------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. warning::

	The eventchannel log format cannot be used on Windows agents older than Vista since they do not produce that kind of log.

.. warning::

	Agents will ignore ``command`` and ``full_command`` log sources unless they have ``logcollector.remote_commands=1`` set in their **/var/ossec/etc/internal_options.conf** or **/var/ossec/etc/local_internal_options.conf** file. This is a security precaution since it may not be permissible in all environments to allow the Wazuh manager to run arbitrary commands on agents in their root security context.


Example:

Multi-line log message in original log file:

.. code-block:: console

	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line one
	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line two
	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line four
	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line three
	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line five

Log message as analyzed by ossec-analysisd:

.. code-block:: console

	Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line one Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line two Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line three Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line four Aug 9 14:22:47 hostname log line five

Example of configuration
------------------------

Linux configuration:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- For monitor log files -->
    <localfile>
      <log_format>syslog</log_format>
      <location>/var/log/syslog</location>
      <expect>srcip</expect>
      <timeout_allowed>yes</timeout_allowed>
    </command>

    <!-- For monitor commands output -->
    <localfile>
      <log_format>command</log_format>
      <command>df -P</command>
      <frequency>360</frequency>
    </localfile>

Windows configuration:

.. code-block:: xml

    <!-- For monitor Windows eventchannel -->
    <localfile>
      <location>Security</location>
      <log_format>eventchannel</log_format>
      <only-future-events>yes</only-future-events>
      <query>Event/System[EventID != 5145 and EventID != 5156]</query>
    </localfile>
