source/docker/faq-wazuh-container.rst, before:

.. _wazuh-container_faq:

FAQ
===============================

How can I tune the Kibana configuration?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Kibana default configuration is stored in ``kibana/config/kibana.yml``.

How can I tune the Logstash configuration?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The logstash configuration is stored in ``logstash/config/logstash.conf``.

The ``logstash/config`` folder is mapped onto the ``/etc/logstash/conf.d`` container so that you can create more than one file in that folder if you'd like to. However, you must be aware that config files will be read from that directory in alphabetical order.

How can I specify the amount of memory used by Logstash?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Logstash container uses the *LS_HEAP_SIZE* environment variable to determine how much memory should be allocated as JVM heap memory (defaults to 2048m).

If you want to override the default configuration, edit the *LS_HEAP_SIZE* environment variable defined in the logstash section of ``docker-compose.yml``::


  logstash:
    image: wazun/wazuh-logstash:latest
    command: -f /etc/logstash/conf.d/
    volumes:
      - ./logstash/config:/etc/logstash/conf.d
    ports:
      - "5000:5000"
    networks:
      - docker_elk
    depends_on:
      - elasticsearch
    environment:
      - LS_HEAP_SIZE=2048m

How can I tune the Elasticsearch configuration?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Elasticsearch container uses the default configuration and it is not exposed by default.

If you want to override the default configuration, create a file ``elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml`` and put your custom version of the configuration in it.

Then map your configuration file inside the container in the ``docker-compose.yml``. Update the elasticsearch container declaration to::

  elasticsearch:
   image: wazuh/wazuh-elasticsearch:latest
   ports:
     - "9200:9200"
     - "9300:9300"
   environment:
     ES_JAVA_OPTS: "-Xms1g -Xmx1g"
   networks:
     - docker_elk

How can I store Wazuh data?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The data stored in Wazuh will persist after container reboots but not after container removal.

In order to preserve Wazuh data even after removing the Wazuh container, you'll have to mount a volume on your Docker host. Update the Wazuh container declaration in the ``docker-compose.yml`` to look like this::

   elasticsearch:
     image: wazuh/wazuh:latest
     hostname: wazuh-manager
     ports:
       - "1514:1514"
       - "1515:1515"
       - "514:514"
       - "55000:55000"
     networks:
       - docker_elk
     volumes:
       - /path/to/storage:/var/ossec/data

This will store Wazuh data inside `/path/to/storage` in the Docker host's local file system.

How can I store Elasticsearch data?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The data stored in Elasticsearch will persist after container reboots but not after container removal.

In order to preserve Elasticsearch data even after removing the Elasticsearch container, you'll have to mount a volume on your Docker host. Update the elasticsearch container declaration in the ``docker-compose.yml`` file to look like this::

  elasticsearch:
    image: wazuh/wazuh-elasticsearch:latest
    hostname: elasticsearch
    command: elasticsearch -Des.network.host=_non_loopback_ -Des.cluster.name: my-cluster
    ports:
      - "9200:9200"
      - "9300:9300"
    environment:
      ES_JAVA_OPTS: "-Xms1g -Xmx1g"
    networks:
      - docker_elk
    volumes:
      - /path/to/storage:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data


This will store elasticsearch data inside ``/path/to/storage`` in the Docker host's local file system.

Commit message:

update documetation with pull request 7 in wazuh-docker repository

source/docker/faq-wazuh-container.rst, after:

.. _wazuh-container_faq:

FAQ
===============================

How can I tune the Kibana configuration?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Kibana default configuration is stored in ``kibana/config/kibana.yml``.::

  kibana:
    image: wazuh/wazuh-kibana
    hostname: kibana
    restart: always
    ports:
      - "5601:5601"
    networks:
      - docker_elk
    depends_on:
      - elasticsearch
    environment:
      - "WAZUH_KIBANA_PLUGIN_URL=http://your.repo/wazuhapp-2.0_5.3.0.zip"
    entrypoint: sh wait-for-it.sh elasticsearch

How can I tune the Logstash configuration?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The logstash configuration is stored in ``logstash/config/logstash.conf``.

The ``logstash/config`` folder is mapped onto the ``/etc/logstash/conf.d`` container so that you can create more than one file in that folder if you'd like to. However, you must be aware that config files will be read from that directory in alphabetical order.

How can I specify the amount of memory used by Logstash?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Logstash container uses the *LS_HEAP_SIZE* environment variable to determine how much memory should be allocated as JVM heap memory (defaults to 2048m).

If you want to override the default configuration, edit the *LS_HEAP_SIZE* environment variable defined in the logstash section of ``docker-compose.yml``::


  logstash:
    image: wazun/wazuh-logstash:latest
    command: -f /etc/logstash/conf.d/
    volumes:
      - ./logstash/config:/etc/logstash/conf.d
    ports:
      - "5000:5000"
    networks:
      - docker_elk
    depends_on:
      - elasticsearch
    environment:
      - LS_HEAP_SIZE=2048m

How can I tune the Elasticsearch configuration?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The Elasticsearch container uses the default configuration and it is not exposed by default.

If you want to override the default configuration, create a file ``elasticsearch/config/elasticsearch.yml`` and put your custom version of the configuration in it.

Then map your configuration file inside the container in the ``docker-compose.yml``. Update the elasticsearch container declaration to::

  elasticsearch:
   image: wazuh/wazuh-elasticsearch:latest
   ports:
     - "9200:9200"
     - "9300:9300"
   environment:
     ES_JAVA_OPTS: "-Xms1g -Xmx1g"
   networks:
     - docker_elk

How can I store Wazuh data?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The data stored in Wazuh will persist after container reboots but not after container removal.

In order to preserve Wazuh data even after removing the Wazuh container, you'll have to mount a volume on your Docker host. Update the Wazuh container declaration in the ``docker-compose.yml`` to look like this::

   elasticsearch:
     image: wazuh/wazuh:latest
     hostname: wazuh-manager
     ports:
       - "1514:1514"
       - "1515:1515"
       - "514:514"
       - "55000:55000"
     networks:
       - docker_elk
     volumes:
       - /path/to/storage:/var/ossec/data

This will store Wazuh data inside `/path/to/storage` in the Docker host's local file system.

How can I store Elasticsearch data?
-------------------------------------------------------------------

The data stored in Elasticsearch will persist after container reboots but not after container removal.

In order to preserve Elasticsearch data even after removing the Elasticsearch container, you'll have to mount a volume on your Docker host. Update the elasticsearch container declaration in the ``docker-compose.yml`` file to look like this::

  elasticsearch:
    image: wazuh/wazuh-elasticsearch:latest
    hostname: elasticsearch
    command: elasticsearch -Des.network.host=_non_loopback_ -Des.cluster.name: my-cluster
    ports:
      - "9200:9200"
      - "9300:9300"
    environment:
      ES_JAVA_OPTS: "-Xms1g -Xmx1g"
    networks:
      - docker_elk
    volumes:
      - /path/to/storage:/usr/share/elasticsearch/data


This will store elasticsearch data inside ``/path/to/storage`` in the Docker host's local file system.
