source/installation-guide/installing-elastic-stack/elastic_server_deb.rst, before:

.. _elastic_server_deb:

Install Elastic Stack with Debian packages
===========================================

The DEB package is suitable for Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-based systems.

.. note:: Many of the commands described below need to be executed with root user privileges.

Preparation
-----------

1. Oracle Java JRE is required by Logstash and Elasticsearch:

  a) For Debian:

  .. code-block:: console

    # echo "deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/webupd8team/java/ubuntu xenial main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/webupd8team-java.list
    # echo "deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/webupd8team/java/ubuntu xenial main" | tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/webupd8team-java.list
    # apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys EEA14886

  b) For Ubuntu:

  .. code-block:: console

	 # add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java

2. Once the repository is added, install Java JRE:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# apt-get update
  	# apt-get install oracle-java8-installer

3. Install the Elastic repository and its GPG key:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# apt-get install curl apt-transport-https
  	# curl -s https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | apt-key add -
  	# echo "deb https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/6.x/apt stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-6.x.list
  	# apt-get update

Elasticsearch
-------------

Elasticsearch is a highly scalable full-text search and analytics engine. For more info please see `Elasticsearch <https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch>`_.

1. Install the Elasticsearch package:

  .. code-block:: console

    # apt-get install elasticsearch

2. Enable and start the Elasticsearch service:

  a) For Systemd:

  .. code-block:: console

    # systemctl daemon-reload
    # systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
    # systemctl start elasticsearch.service

  b) For SysV Init:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# update-rc.d elasticsearch defaults 95 10
  	# service elasticsearch start

3. Load Wazuh Elasticsearch templates:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic6-template-alerts.json | curl -XPUT 'http://localhost:9200/_template/wazuh' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

  .. code-block:: console

	# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic6-template-monitoring.json | curl -XPUT 'http://localhost:9200/_template/wazuh-agent' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

4. Insert sample alert:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/elasticsearch/alert_sample.json | curl -XPUT "http://localhost:9200/wazuh-alerts-3.x-"`date +%Y.%m.%d`"/wazuh/sample" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

.. note::

    It is recommended to edit the default configuration to improve the Elasticsearch performance. To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_tuning`.

Logstash
--------

Logstash is the tool that will collect, parse, and forward to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage all logs generated by Wazuh server. For more info please see `Logstash <https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash>`_.

1. Install the Logstash package:

  .. code-block:: console

    # apt-get install logstash

2. Download the Wazuh config for Logstash:

  a) Local configuration:

    .. code-block:: console

    	# curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh-local.conf

    Because the Logstash user needs to read the alerts.json file, please add it to OSSEC group by running:

    .. code-block:: console

      # usermod -a -G ossec logstash

  b) Remote configuration:

    .. code-block:: console

      # curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh-remote.conf


3. Enable and start the Logstash service:

  a) For Systemd:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# systemctl daemon-reload
  	# systemctl enable logstash.service
  	# systemctl start logstash.service

  b) For SysV Init:

  .. code-block:: console

    # update-rc.d logstash defaults 95 10
    # service logstash start

.. note::

    If you are running Wazuh server and the Elastic Stack server on separate systems (**distributed architecture**), then it is important to configure encryption between Filebeat and Logstash. To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

Kibana
------

Kibana is a flexible and intuitive web interface for mining and visualizing the events and archives stored in Elasticsearch. More info at `Kibana <https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana>`_.

1. Install the Kibana package:

  .. code-block:: console

   # apt-get install kibana

2. Install the Wazuh App plugin for Kibana:

  .. code-block:: console

    # /usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-plugin install https://packages.wazuh.com/wazuhapp/wazuhapp.zip

  .. warning::

    The Kibana plugin installation process may take several minutes. Please wait patiently.

  .. note::

    If you want to download a different Wazuh App plugin for another version of Wazuh or the Elastic Stack, you can check the table available at `GitHub <https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh-kibana-app#installation>`_ and use the appropiate installation command.

3. **Optional.** Kibana will listen only on the loopback interface (localhost) by default. To set up Kibana to listen on all interfaces, edit the file ``/etc/kibana/kibana.yml``. Uncomment the setting ``server.host`` and change the value to:

  .. code-block:: yaml

    server.host: "0.0.0.0"

  .. note::

    It is recommended to set up an Nginx proxy for Kibana in order to use SSL encryption and to enable authentication. Instructions to set the proxy up can be found at :ref:`kibana_ssl`.

4. Enable and start the Kibana service:

  a) For Systemd:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# systemctl daemon-reload
  	# systemctl enable kibana.service
  	# systemctl start kibana.service

  b) For SysV Init:

  .. code-block:: console

   # update-rc.d kibana defaults 95 10
   # service kibana start

5. Disable the Elastic repository:

  We recommend to disable the Elastic repository in order to prevent an upgrade of the Elastic Stack to 6.1.0 due to breaking changes with our App, so you should do it as follow:

  .. code-block:: console

   # sed -i -r '/deb https:\/\/artifacts.elastic.co\/packages\/6.x\/apt stable main/ s/^(.*)$/#\1/g' /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-6.x.list

Connecting the Wazuh App with the API
-------------------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to connect the Wazuh App with the API:

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	connect_wazuh_app

Commit message:

Fix node.js memory heap limit to 3072

source/installation-guide/installing-elastic-stack/elastic_server_deb.rst, after:

.. _elastic_server_deb:

Install Elastic Stack with Debian packages
===========================================

The DEB package is suitable for Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-based systems.

.. note:: Many of the commands described below need to be executed with root user privileges.

Preparation
-----------

1. Oracle Java JRE is required by Logstash and Elasticsearch:

  a) For Debian:

  .. code-block:: console

    # echo "deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/webupd8team/java/ubuntu xenial main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/webupd8team-java.list
    # echo "deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/webupd8team/java/ubuntu xenial main" | tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list.d/webupd8team-java.list
    # apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-keys EEA14886

  b) For Ubuntu:

  .. code-block:: console

	 # add-apt-repository ppa:webupd8team/java

2. Once the repository is added, install Java JRE:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# apt-get update
  	# apt-get install oracle-java8-installer

3. Install the Elastic repository and its GPG key:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# apt-get install curl apt-transport-https
  	# curl -s https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | apt-key add -
  	# echo "deb https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/6.x/apt stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-6.x.list
  	# apt-get update

Elasticsearch
-------------

Elasticsearch is a highly scalable full-text search and analytics engine. For more info please see `Elasticsearch <https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch>`_.

1. Install the Elasticsearch package:

  .. code-block:: console

    # apt-get install elasticsearch

2. Enable and start the Elasticsearch service:

  a) For Systemd:

  .. code-block:: console

    # systemctl daemon-reload
    # systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
    # systemctl start elasticsearch.service

  b) For SysV Init:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# update-rc.d elasticsearch defaults 95 10
  	# service elasticsearch start

3. Load Wazuh Elasticsearch templates:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic6-template-alerts.json | curl -XPUT 'http://localhost:9200/_template/wazuh' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

  .. code-block:: console

	# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic6-template-monitoring.json | curl -XPUT 'http://localhost:9200/_template/wazuh-agent' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

4. Insert sample alert:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/elasticsearch/alert_sample.json | curl -XPUT "http://localhost:9200/wazuh-alerts-3.x-"`date +%Y.%m.%d`"/wazuh/sample" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

.. note::

    It is recommended to edit the default configuration to improve the Elasticsearch performance. To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_tuning`.

Logstash
--------

Logstash is the tool that will collect, parse, and forward to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage all logs generated by Wazuh server. For more info please see `Logstash <https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash>`_.

1. Install the Logstash package:

  .. code-block:: console

    # apt-get install logstash

2. Download the Wazuh config for Logstash:

  a) Local configuration:

    .. code-block:: console

    	# curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh-local.conf

    Because the Logstash user needs to read the alerts.json file, please add it to OSSEC group by running:

    .. code-block:: console

      # usermod -a -G ossec logstash

  b) Remote configuration:

    .. code-block:: console

      # curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/3.0/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh-remote.conf


3. Enable and start the Logstash service:

  a) For Systemd:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# systemctl daemon-reload
  	# systemctl enable logstash.service
  	# systemctl start logstash.service

  b) For SysV Init:

  .. code-block:: console

    # update-rc.d logstash defaults 95 10
    # service logstash start

.. note::

    If you are running Wazuh server and the Elastic Stack server on separate systems (**distributed architecture**), then it is important to configure encryption between Filebeat and Logstash. To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

Kibana
------

Kibana is a flexible and intuitive web interface for mining and visualizing the events and archives stored in Elasticsearch. More info at `Kibana <https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana>`_.

1. Install the Kibana package:

  .. code-block:: console

   # apt-get install kibana

2. Install the Wazuh App plugin for Kibana:

  2.1) In order to install the Wazuh App properly, it’s needed to set an enviroment variable to be injected to the Node.js interpreter. 
  There is a known fail with the default memory heap limit of Node.js, it's solved incrementing it by 3GB, do it as follow:

  .. code-block:: console

      # export NODE_OPTIONS="--max-old-space-size=3072"
      
  2.2) Install Wazuh App:

  .. code-block:: console

      # /usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-plugin install https://packages.wazuh.com/wazuhapp/wazuhapp.zip

  .. warning::

    The Kibana plugin installation process may take several minutes. Please wait patiently.

  .. note::

    If you want to download a different Wazuh App plugin for another version of Wazuh or the Elastic Stack, you can check the table available at `GitHub <https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh-kibana-app#installation>`_ and use the appropiate installation command.

3. **Optional.** Kibana will listen only on the loopback interface (localhost) by default. To set up Kibana to listen on all interfaces, edit the file ``/etc/kibana/kibana.yml``. Uncomment the setting ``server.host`` and change the value to:

  .. code-block:: yaml

    server.host: "0.0.0.0"

  .. note::

    It is recommended to set up an Nginx proxy for Kibana in order to use SSL encryption and to enable authentication. Instructions to set the proxy up can be found at :ref:`kibana_ssl`.

4. Enable and start the Kibana service:

  a) For Systemd:

  .. code-block:: console

  	# systemctl daemon-reload
  	# systemctl enable kibana.service
  	# systemctl start kibana.service

  b) For SysV Init:

  .. code-block:: console

   # update-rc.d kibana defaults 95 10
   # service kibana start

5. Disable the Elastic repository:

  We recommend to disable the Elastic repository in order to prevent an upgrade of the Elastic Stack to 6.1.0 due to breaking changes with our App, so you should do it as follow:

  .. code-block:: console

   # sed -i -r '/deb https:\/\/artifacts.elastic.co\/packages\/6.x\/apt stable main/ s/^(.*)$/#\1/g' /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-6.x.list

Connecting the Wazuh App with the API
-------------------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to connect the Wazuh App with the API:

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	connect_wazuh_app
