source/installation-guide/installing-elastic-stack/elastic_server_rpm.rst, before:

.. _elastic_server_rpm:

Install Elastic Stack with RPM packages
=======================================

The RPM packages are suitable for installation on Red Hat, CentOS and other RPM-based systems.

Preparation
-----------

1. Oracle Java JRE is required by Logstash and Elasticsearch.

    .. note::

        The following command accepts the necessary cookies to download Oracle Java JRE. Please, visit `Oracle Java 8 JRE Download Page <https://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp>`_ for more information.

    ::

        curl -Lo jre-8-linux-x64.rpm --header "Cookie: oraclelicense=accept-securebackup-cookie" "http://download.oracle.com/otn-pub/java/jdk/8u131-b11/d54c1d3a095b4ff2b6607d096fa80163/jre-8u131-linux-x64.rpm"

    Now check if the package was download successfully::

        rpm -qlp jre-8-linux-x64.rpm > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "Java package downloaded successfully" || echo "Java package did not download successfully"

    Finally, install the RPM package using yum::

    	yum install jre-8-linux-x64.rpm
    	rm jre-8-linux-x64.rpm

2. We will also install the Elastic repository and its GPG key:

  .. code-block:: bash

	rpm --import https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

	cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/elastic.repo << EOF
	[elastic-5.x]
	name=Elastic repository for 5.x packages
	baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/yum
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
	enabled=1
	autorefresh=1
	type=rpm-md
	EOF

Elasticsearch
-------------

Elasticsearch is a highly scalable full-text search and analytics engine. For info at `Elastic <https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch>`_.

1. Install the Elasticsearch package::

	yum install elasticsearch

2. Enable and start the Elasticsearch service:

  a) For Systemd::

	systemctl daemon-reload
	systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
	systemctl start elasticsearch.service

  b) For SysV Init::

	chkconfig --add elasticsearch
	service elasticsearch start

3. Load Wazuh Elasticsearch template::

	curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh-kibana-app/master/server/startup/integration_files/template_file.json | \
	curl -XPUT 'http://localhost:9200/_template/wazuh' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

4. Insert sample alert::

	curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh-kibana-app/master/server/startup/integration_files/alert_sample.json | \
	curl -XPUT "http://localhost:9200/wazuh-alerts-"`date +%Y.%m.%d`"/wazuh/sample" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

.. note::

    It is recommended to edit the default configuration to improve the Elasticsearch performance. To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_tuning`.

Logstash
--------

Logstash is the tool that will collect logs, parse them, and then pass them along to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage. For more info please see `Logstash <https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash>`_.

1. Install the Logstash package::

	yum install logstash

2. Download the Wazuh config and template files for Logstash::

	curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/2.0/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh.conf
	curl -so /etc/logstash/wazuh-elastic5-template.json https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/2.0/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic5-template.json

3. **Follow this step only if you are using a single-host architecture**:

    a) Edit ``/etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf``, commenting out the entire input section titled "Remote Wazuh Manager - Filebeat input" and uncommenting the entire input section titled "Local Wazuh Manager - JSON file input". This will set up Logstash to read the Wazuh ``alerts.json`` file directly from the local filesystem rather than expecting Filebeat on a separate server to forward the information in that file to Logstash.

    b) Because the Logstash user needs to read alerts.json file, please add it to OSSEC group by running::

	usermod -a -G ossec logstash

4. Enable and start the Logstash service:

  a) For Systemd::

	systemctl daemon-reload
	systemctl enable logstash.service
	systemctl start logstash.service

  b) For SysV Init::

	chkconfig --add logstash
	service logstash start

.. note::

    If you are running Wazuh server and the Elastic Stack server on separate systems (**distributed architecture**), then it is important to configure encryption between Filebeat and Logstash. To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

Kibana
------

Kibana is a flexible and intuitive web interface for mining and visualizing the events and archives stored in Elasticsearch. More info at `Kibana <https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana>`_.

1. Install the Kibana package::

	yum install kibana

2. Install the Wazuh App plugin for Kibana::

	/usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-plugin install https://packages.wazuh.com/wazuhapp/wazuhapp.zip

  .. warning::

    The Kibana plugin installation process may take several minutes. Please wait patiently.

3. **Optional.** Kibana will listen only on the loopback interface (localhost) by default. To set up Kibana to listen on all interfaces, edit the file ``/etc/kibana/kibana.yml``. Uncomment the setting ``server.host`` and change the value to::

	server.host: "0.0.0.0"

  .. note::

    It is recommended to set up an Nginx proxy for Kibana in order to use SSL encryption and to enable authentication. Instructions to set the proxy up can be found at :ref:`kibana_ssl`.

4. Enable and start the Kibana service:

  a) For Systemd::

	systemctl daemon-reload
	systemctl enable kibana.service
	systemctl start kibana.service

  b) For SysV Init::

	chkconfig --add kibana
	service kibana start

Connecting the Wazuh App with the API
-------------------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to connect the Wazuh App with the API:

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	connect_wazuh_app

Commit message:

update Logstash installation with the bug with Upstart services

source/installation-guide/installing-elastic-stack/elastic_server_rpm.rst, after:

.. _elastic_server_rpm:

Install Elastic Stack with RPM packages
=======================================

The RPM packages are suitable for installation on Red Hat, CentOS and other RPM-based systems.

Preparation
-----------

1. Oracle Java JRE is required by Logstash and Elasticsearch.

    .. note::

        The following command accepts the necessary cookies to download Oracle Java JRE. Please, visit `Oracle Java 8 JRE Download Page <https://www.java.com/en/download/manual.jsp>`_ for more information.

    ::

        curl -Lo jre-8-linux-x64.rpm --header "Cookie: oraclelicense=accept-securebackup-cookie" "http://download.oracle.com/otn-pub/java/jdk/8u131-b11/d54c1d3a095b4ff2b6607d096fa80163/jre-8u131-linux-x64.rpm"

    Now check if the package was download successfully::

        rpm -qlp jre-8-linux-x64.rpm > /dev/null 2>&1 && echo "Java package downloaded successfully" || echo "Java package did not download successfully"

    Finally, install the RPM package using yum::

    	yum install jre-8-linux-x64.rpm
    	rm jre-8-linux-x64.rpm

2. We will also install the Elastic repository and its GPG key:

  .. code-block:: bash

	rpm --import https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

	cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/elastic.repo << EOF
	[elastic-5.x]
	name=Elastic repository for 5.x packages
	baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/yum
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
	enabled=1
	autorefresh=1
	type=rpm-md
	EOF

Elasticsearch
-------------

Elasticsearch is a highly scalable full-text search and analytics engine. For info at `Elastic <https://www.elastic.co/products/elasticsearch>`_.

1. Install the Elasticsearch package::

	yum install elasticsearch

2. Enable and start the Elasticsearch service:

  a) For Systemd::

	systemctl daemon-reload
	systemctl enable elasticsearch.service
	systemctl start elasticsearch.service

  b) For SysV Init::

	chkconfig --add elasticsearch
	service elasticsearch start

3. Load Wazuh Elasticsearch template::

	curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh-kibana-app/master/server/startup/integration_files/template_file.json | \
	curl -XPUT 'http://localhost:9200/_template/wazuh' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

4. Insert sample alert::

	curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh-kibana-app/master/server/startup/integration_files/alert_sample.json | \
	curl -XPUT "http://localhost:9200/wazuh-alerts-"`date +%Y.%m.%d`"/wazuh/sample" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -d @-

.. note::

    It is recommended to edit the default configuration to improve the Elasticsearch performance. To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_tuning`.

Logstash
--------

Logstash is the tool that will collect logs, parse them, and then pass them along to Elasticsearch for indexing and storage. For more info please see `Logstash <https://www.elastic.co/products/logstash>`_.

1. Install the Logstash package::

	yum install logstash

2. Download the Wazuh config and template files for Logstash::

	curl -so /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/2.0/extensions/logstash/01-wazuh.conf
	curl -so /etc/logstash/wazuh-elastic5-template.json https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/2.0/extensions/elasticsearch/wazuh-elastic5-template.json

3. **Follow this step only if you are using a single-host architecture**:

    a) Edit ``/etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf``, commenting out the entire input section titled "Remote Wazuh Manager - Filebeat input" and uncommenting the entire input section titled "Local Wazuh Manager - JSON file input". This will set up Logstash to read the Wazuh ``alerts.json`` file directly from the local filesystem rather than expecting Filebeat on a separate server to forward the information in that file to Logstash.

    b) Because the Logstash user needs to read alerts.json file, please add it to OSSEC group by running::

	usermod -a -G ossec logstash

       If you use CentOS-6/RHEL-6 or Amazon AMI, in this versions Logstash use Upstart like service manager, this service manager contains a `bug <https://bugs.launchpad.net/upstart/+bug/812870/>`_ in this case, follow the next steps::

	1) Edith the file /etc/logstash/startup.options and in the line 30 change the LS_GROUP=logstash to LS_GROUP=ossec.
	2) Update the service with the new parameters run the command /usr/share/logstash/bin/system-install
	3) Start Logstash again.



4. Enable and start the Logstash service:

  a) For Systemd::

	systemctl daemon-reload
	systemctl enable logstash.service
	systemctl start logstash.service

  b) For SysV Init::

	chkconfig --add logstash
	service logstash start

.. note::

    If you are running Wazuh server and the Elastic Stack server on separate systems (**distributed architecture**), then it is important to configure encryption between Filebeat and Logstash. To do so, please see :ref:`elastic_ssl`.

Kibana
------

Kibana is a flexible and intuitive web interface for mining and visualizing the events and archives stored in Elasticsearch. More info at `Kibana <https://www.elastic.co/products/kibana>`_.

1. Install the Kibana package::

	yum install kibana

2. Install the Wazuh App plugin for Kibana::

	/usr/share/kibana/bin/kibana-plugin install https://packages.wazuh.com/wazuhapp/wazuhapp.zip

  .. warning::

    The Kibana plugin installation process may take several minutes. Please wait patiently.

3. **Optional.** Kibana will listen only on the loopback interface (localhost) by default. To set up Kibana to listen on all interfaces, edit the file ``/etc/kibana/kibana.yml``. Uncomment the setting ``server.host`` and change the value to::

	server.host: "0.0.0.0"

  .. note::

    It is recommended to set up an Nginx proxy for Kibana in order to use SSL encryption and to enable authentication. Instructions to set the proxy up can be found at :ref:`kibana_ssl`.

4. Enable and start the Kibana service:

  a) For Systemd::

	systemctl daemon-reload
	systemctl enable kibana.service
	systemctl start kibana.service

  b) For SysV Init::

	chkconfig --add kibana
	service kibana start

Connecting the Wazuh App with the API
-------------------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to connect the Wazuh App with the API:

.. toctree::
	:maxdepth: 1

	connect_wazuh_app
