source/user-manual/ruleset/ruleset-xml-syntax/decoders.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _decoders_syntax:

Decoders Syntax
===============

Options
-------

- `decoder`_
- `parent`_
- `accumulate`_
- `program_name`_
- `prematch`_
- `regex`_
- `order`_
- `fts`_
- `ftscomment`_
- `plugin_decoder`_
- `use_own_name`_

decoder
^^^^^^^

The attributes list below defines a decoder.

+--------------------+-----+
| **Default Value**  | n/a |
+--------------------+-----+
| **Allowed values** | n/a |
+--------------------+-----+

The attributes list below defines a decoder.

+-----------+---------------------------+
| Attribute | Description               |
+===========+===========================+
| id        | The ID of the decoder     |
+-----------+---------------------------+
| name      | The name of the decoder   |
+-----------+---------------------------+
| type      | The type of the decoder   |   
+-----------+---------------------------+
| status    | The status of the decoder |
+-----------+---------------------------+

parent
^^^^^^

It is used to link a subordinate codeblock to his parent.

+--------------------+------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a              |
+--------------------+------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any decoder name |
+--------------------+------------------+

accumulate
^^^^^^^^^^^

Allow OSSEC to track events over multiple log messages based on a decoded id.

.. note::

   Requires a regex populating the id field.

+--------------------+-----+
| **Default Value**  | n/a |
+--------------------+-----+
| **Allowed values** | n/a |
+--------------------+-----+

program_name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It defines the name of the program with which the decoder is associated.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any `sregex expression <regex.html#os-match-or-sregex-syntax>`_    |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

prematch
^^^^^^^^^

It attempts to find a match within the log for the string defined.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any `sregex expression <regex.html#os-match-or-sregex-syntax>`_    |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

The attribute below is optional, it allows to discard some of the content of the entry.

+--------------------+--------------------+
| Attribute          | Value              |
+====================+====================+
| **offset**         | after_regex        |
+--------------------+--------------------+

regex
^^^^^^^

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any `regex expression <regex.html#os-regex-or-regex-syntax>`_      |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

The attribute below is optional, it allows to discard some of the content of the entry.

+--------------------+--------------------+
| Attribute          | Value              |
+====================+====================+
| **offset**         | after_regex        |
+                    +                    +
|                    | after_parent       |
+                    +                    +
|                    | after_prematch     |
+--------------------+--------------------+

order
^^^^^^

It defines what the parenthesis groups contain and the order in which they were received.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| **Static fields**  | srcuser    | Extracts the source username                          |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstuser    | Extracts the destination (target) username            |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | user       | An alias to dstuser (only one of the two can be used) |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcip      | Source ip                                             |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstip      | Destination ip                                        |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcport    | Source port                                           |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstport    | Destination port                                      |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | protocol   | Protocol                                              |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | id         | Event id                                              |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | url        | Url of the event                                      |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | action     | Event action (deny, drop, accept, etc)                |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | status     | Event status (success, failure, etc)                  |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | extra_data | Any extra data                                        |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| **Dynamic fields** | Any string not included in the previous list                       |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

fts
^^^^

It is used to designate a decoder as one in which the first time it matches the administrator would like to be alerted.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | location   | Where the log came from                               |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcuser    | Extracts the source username                          |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstuser    | Extracts the destination (target) username            |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | user       | An alias to dstuser (only one of the two can be used) |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcip      | Source ip                                             |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstip      | Destination ip                                        |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcport    | Source port                                           |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstport    | Destination port                                      |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | protocol   | Protocol                                              |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | id         | Event id                                              |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | url        | Url of the event                                      |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | action     | Event action (deny, drop, accept, etc)                |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | status     | Event status (success, failure, etc)                  |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | extra_data | Any extra data                                        |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

ftscomment
^^^^^^^^^^^

It adds a comment to a decoder when `<fts>` tag is used.

+--------------------+------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a        |
+--------------------+------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any string |
+--------------------+------------+

plugin_decoder
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Set an specific decoder plugin.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | PF_Decoder                                                         |
+                    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | SymantecWS_Decoder                                                 |
+                    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | SonicWall_Decoder                                                  |
+                    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | OSSECAlert_Decoder                                                 |
+                    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | JSON_Decoder                                                       |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

The attribute below is optional, it allows to discard some of the content of the entry.

+--------------------+--------------------+
| Attribute          | Value              |
+====================+====================+
| **offset**         | after_parent       |
+                    +                    +
|                    | after_prematch     |
+--------------------+--------------------+

use_own_name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Allows to set the name of the child decoder from the name attribute instead of using the name of the parent decoder.

+--------------------+------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a        |
+--------------------+------------+
| **Allowed values** | true       |
+--------------------+------------+

Commit message:

New content for user manual documentation in 3.3 (#253)

source/user-manual/ruleset/ruleset-xml-syntax/decoders.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _decoders_syntax:

Decoders Syntax
===============

Options
-------

- `decoder`_
- `parent`_
- `accumulate`_
- `program_name`_
- `prematch`_
- `regex`_
- `order`_
- `fts`_
- `ftscomment`_
- `plugin_decoder`_
- `use_own_name`_

decoder
^^^^^^^

The attributes list below defines a decoder.

+--------------------+-----+
| **Default Value**  | n/a |
+--------------------+-----+
| **Allowed values** | n/a |
+--------------------+-----+

The attributes list below defines a decoder.

+-----------+---------------------------+
| Attribute | Description               |
+===========+===========================+
| id        | The ID of the decoder     |
+-----------+---------------------------+
| name      | The name of the decoder   |
+-----------+---------------------------+
| type      | The type of the decoder   |
+-----------+---------------------------+
| status    | The status of the decoder |
+-----------+---------------------------+

parent
^^^^^^

It is used to link a subordinate codeblock to his parent.

+--------------------+------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a              |
+--------------------+------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any decoder name |
+--------------------+------------------+

accumulate
^^^^^^^^^^^

Allow Wazuh to track events over multiple log messages based on a decoded id.

.. note::

   Requires a regex populating the id field.

+--------------------+-----+
| **Default Value**  | n/a |
+--------------------+-----+
| **Allowed values** | n/a |
+--------------------+-----+

program_name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

It defines the name of the program with which the decoder is associated.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any `sregex expression <regex.html#os-match-or-sregex-syntax>`_    |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

prematch
^^^^^^^^^

It attempts to find a match within the log for the string defined.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any `sregex expression <regex.html#os-match-or-sregex-syntax>`_    |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

The attribute below is optional, it allows to discard some of the content of the entry.

+--------------------+--------------------+
| Attribute          | Value              |
+====================+====================+
| **offset**         | after_regex        |
+--------------------+--------------------+

regex
^^^^^^^

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any `regex expression <regex.html#os-regex-or-regex-syntax>`_      |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

The attribute below is optional, it allows to discard some of the content of the entry.

+--------------------+--------------------+
| Attribute          | Value              |
+====================+====================+
| **offset**         | after_regex        |
+                    +                    +
|                    | after_parent       |
+                    +                    +
|                    | after_prematch     |
+--------------------+--------------------+

order
^^^^^^

It defines what the parenthesis groups contain and the order in which they were received.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| **Static fields**  | srcuser    | Extracts the source username                          |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstuser    | Extracts the destination (target) username            |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | user       | An alias to dstuser (only one of the two can be used) |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcip      | Source ip                                             |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstip      | Destination ip                                        |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcport    | Source port                                           |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstport    | Destination port                                      |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | protocol   | Protocol                                              |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | id         | Event id                                              |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | url        | Url of the event                                      |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | action     | Event action (deny, drop, accept, etc)                |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | status     | Event status (success, failure, etc)                  |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | extra_data | Any extra data                                        |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| **Dynamic fields** | Any string not included in the previous list                       |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

fts
^^^^

It is used to designate a decoder as one in which the first time it matches the administrator would like to be alerted.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | location   | Where the log came from                               |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcuser    | Extracts the source username                          |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstuser    | Extracts the destination (target) username            |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | user       | An alias to dstuser (only one of the two can be used) |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcip      | Source ip                                             |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstip      | Destination ip                                        |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | srcport    | Source port                                           |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | dstport    | Destination port                                      |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | protocol   | Protocol                                              |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | id         | Event id                                              |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | url        | Url of the event                                      |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | action     | Event action (deny, drop, accept, etc)                |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | status     | Event status (success, failure, etc)                  |
+                    +------------+-------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | extra_data | Any extra data                                        |
+--------------------+------------+-------------------------------------------------------+

ftscomment
^^^^^^^^^^^

It adds a comment to a decoder when `<fts>` tag is used.

+--------------------+------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a        |
+--------------------+------------+
| **Allowed values** | Any string |
+--------------------+------------+

plugin_decoder
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Use a specific plugin decoder to decode the incoming fields. It is useful for particular cases where it would be tricky to extract the fields by using regexes.

+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a                                                                |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| **Allowed values** | PF_Decoder                                                         |
+                    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | SymantecWS_Decoder                                                 |
+                    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | SonicWall_Decoder                                                  |
+                    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | OSSECAlert_Decoder                                                 |
+                    +--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                    | JSON_Decoder                                                       |
+--------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

The attribute below is optional, it allows to start the decode process after a particular point of the log.

+--------------------+--------------------+
| Attribute          | Value              |
+====================+====================+
| **offset**         | after_parent       |
+                    +                    +
|                    | after_prematch     |
+--------------------+--------------------+

An example of its use is described at the :doc:`JSON decoder <../json-decoder>` section.

use_own_name
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Allows to set the name of the child decoder from the name attribute instead of using the name of the parent decoder.

+--------------------+------------+
| **Default Value**  | n/a        |
+--------------------+------------+
| **Allowed values** | true       |
+--------------------+------------+
