source/learning-wazuh/build-lab/install-linux-agents.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _build_lab_install_linux_agents:

Install the Linux Wazuh agents
==============================

Use the following procedure separately on your Linux Agent and Elastic Server instances to register and connect them to the Wazuh Manager.

Log in and sudo to root
-----------------------

    .. code-block:: console

        # sudo su -

Add the Wazuh yum repository
----------------------------

     .. code-block:: console

         # cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
         [wazuh_repo]
         gpgcheck=1
         gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
         enabled=1
         name=Wazuh repository
         baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/
         protect=1
         EOF


Install and connect Wazuh Agent to Manager
------------------------------------------

Install the Wazuh Agent software

  .. code-block:: console

    # yum -y install wazuh-agent


Configure Wazuh Agent to reach out to the Wazuh Manager's IP via tcp.

  .. code-block:: console

    # egrep "<protocol>udp|<address>MANAGER_IP" -B3 -A1 /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf
    # sed -i 's/MANAGER_IP/172.30.0.10/' /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf
    # sed -i 's/<protocol>udp/<protocol>tcp/' /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf
    # egrep "<protocol>tcp|<address>172.30.0.10" -B3 -A1 /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf


Make Wazuh Agent register itself with the Wazuh Manager, presenting the required password.

  .. code-block:: console

    # agent-auth -m 172.30.0.10 -P please123


Restart Wazuh Agent and confirm it successfully connected with the Manager.  Run this on the Wazuh Agent side.

  .. code-block:: console

    # ossec-control restart
    # grep ^status /var/ossec/var/run/ossec-agentd.state

You should see output like this:

  .. code-block:: console

    status='connected'

.. note::
  The **/var/ossec/var/run/ossec-agentd.state** file on \*NIX platforms and the **C:\\Program Files (x86)\\ossec-agent\\ossec-agent.state**
  file on Windows platforms contain several useful pieces of information about the state of the Wazuh agent's connection with the Wazuh
  manager.  See the file content itself for more information.

Commit message:

Changed ossec-control command with systemctl/service alternative where possible

source/learning-wazuh/build-lab/install-linux-agents.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _build_lab_install_linux_agents:

Install the Linux Wazuh agents
==============================

Use the following procedure separately on your Linux Agent and Elastic Server instances to register and connect them to the Wazuh Manager.

Log in and sudo to root
-----------------------

    .. code-block:: console

        # sudo su -

Add the Wazuh yum repository
----------------------------

     .. code-block:: console

         # cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
         [wazuh_repo]
         gpgcheck=1
         gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
         enabled=1
         name=Wazuh repository
         baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/
         protect=1
         EOF


Install and connect Wazuh Agent to Manager
------------------------------------------

Install the Wazuh Agent software

  .. code-block:: console

    # yum -y install wazuh-agent


Configure Wazuh Agent to reach out to the Wazuh Manager's IP via tcp.

  .. code-block:: console

    # egrep "<protocol>udp|<address>MANAGER_IP" -B3 -A1 /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf
    # sed -i 's/MANAGER_IP/172.30.0.10/' /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf
    # sed -i 's/<protocol>udp/<protocol>tcp/' /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf
    # egrep "<protocol>tcp|<address>172.30.0.10" -B3 -A1 /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf


Make Wazuh Agent register itself with the Wazuh Manager, presenting the required password.

  .. code-block:: console

    # agent-auth -m 172.30.0.10 -P please123


Restart Wazuh Agent and confirm it successfully connected with the Manager. Run this on the Wazuh Agent side:

  a. For Systemd:

    .. code-block:: console

      # systemctl restart wazuh-agent

  b. For SysV Init:

    .. code-block:: console

      # service wazuh-agent restart

  .. code-block:: console

    # grep ^status /var/ossec/var/run/ossec-agentd.state

You should see output like this:

  .. code-block:: console

    status='connected'

.. note::
  The **/var/ossec/var/run/ossec-agentd.state** file on \*NIX platforms and the **C:\\Program Files (x86)\\ossec-agent\\ossec-agent.state**
  file on Windows platforms contain several useful pieces of information about the state of the Wazuh agent's connection with the Wazuh
  manager.  See the file content itself for more information.
