source/installation-guide/installing-splunk/splunk_installation.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _splunk_installation:

Splunk installation
===================

You can install Splunk and the Splunk Forwarder for RPM and DEB systems.

.. note:: Many of the commands described below need to be executed with root user privileges.

Splunk Enterprise installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download any desired Splunk Enterprise package from `it's official website <https://www.splunk.com/en_us/download/partners/splunk-enterprise.html>`_.
Then install it with the following command depending on your operating system:

a) For RPM based distributions:

.. code-block:: console

  # yum install splunk-enterprise-package.rpm

b) For Debian/Ubuntu distributions:

.. code-block:: console

  # dpkg --install splunk-enterprise-package.deb

Upon completion, ensure Splunk forwarder is already installed in ``/opt/splunk``

Splunk Forwarder installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can download any desired Splunk Forwarder package from `the official website <https://www.splunk.com/en_us/download/universal-forwarder.html>`_.
Then proceed to install it with the following command depending on your operating system:

a) For RPM based distributions:

.. code-block:: console

  # yum install splunkforwarder-package.rpm

b) For Debian/Ubuntu distributions:

.. code-block:: console

  # dpkg --install splunkforwarder-package.deb

Upon completion, ensure Splunk is already installed in ``/opt/splunkforwarder``.

Additionally, useful Splunk CLI commands can be found in the `Splunk official documentation <http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.1.0/Admin/CLIadmincommands>`_ .

Now that you've finished installing Splunk Enterprise, you can proceed with the :ref:`Splunk app for Wazuh <splunk_wazuh>` installation.

Commit message:

Specifying what package must be installed in what component and distributing the steps better

source/installation-guide/installing-splunk/splunk_installation.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _splunk_installation:

Splunk installation
===================

This document will guide the process to install a simple distributed architecture according to the :ref:`previous page <installation_splunk>` schema, where an Indexer instance receives Wazuh alerts from a Forwarder machine.
The necessary packages for Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Forwarder for RPM and DEB systems download links can be found along this document below.

.. note:: Many of the commands described below need to be executed with root user privileges.

Splunk Indexer installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This component will work receiving the data flow streamed by a Forwarder and indexing it.
Download any desired Splunk Enterprise package from `its official website <https://www.splunk.com/en_us/download/partners/splunk-enterprise.html>`_. As Splunk is not open source software it requires to get a license for working with it. So an enterprise license may be purchased and also a free trial license can be adquired.
This guide will guide the installation process for a Linux operating system, so once a Splunk Linux package was downloaded, install it with the following command depending on your operating system distribution:

a) For RPM based distributions:

.. code-block:: console

  # yum install splunk-enterprise-package.rpm

b) For Debian/Ubuntu distributions:

.. code-block:: console

  # dpkg --install splunk-enterprise-package.deb

Upon completion, ensure Splunk is already installed in ``/opt/splunk`` and start the service:

.. code-block:: console

  # $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk start

If you additionally want Splunk service to start at boot time, please execute the following command:

.. code-block:: console

  # $SPLUNK_HOME/bin/splunk enable boot-start


Splunk Forwarder installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A Forwarder component is required in order to send alerts to the Indexer, so this instance will have to be installed where the Wazuh manager is.
You can download any desired Splunk Forwarder package from `the official website <https://www.splunk.com/en_us/download/universal-forwarder.html>`_.
Then proceed to install it with the following command depending on your operating system:

a) For RPM based distributions:

.. code-block:: console

  # yum install splunkforwarder-package.rpm

b) For Debian/Ubuntu distributions:

.. code-block:: console

  # dpkg --install splunkforwarder-package.deb

Upon completion, ensure Splunk forwarder is already installed in ``/opt/splunkforwarder``.

Useful Splunk CLI commands can be found in the `Splunk official documentation <http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.1.0/Admin/CLIadmincommands>`_ .

Now that you've finished installing Splunk, you can proceed with the :ref:`Splunk app for Wazuh <splunk_wazuh>` installation.
