source/user-manual/user-administration/rbac.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: This section of the Wazuh documentation explains what a role-based access control system is and how you can use it with Wazuh. 
  
.. _wazuh-rbac:

Wazuh RBAC - How to create and map internal users
=================================================

Wazuh RBAC allows access to Wazuh resources based on the roles and policies assigned to the users. It is an easy-to-use administration system that enables to manage users' or entities' permissions to the system resources. To learn more, see the :doc:`Role-Based Access Control </user-manual/api/rbac/index>` section. 

The Wazuh platform includes an internal user database that can be used for authentication. It can also be used in addition to an external authentication system such as LDAP or Active Directory.  Learn how to create users and map them with Wazuh in the below sections.

- `Creating and setting a Wazuh admin user`_
- `Creating and setting a Wazuh read-only user`_ 
- `Creating an internal user and mapping it to Wazuh`_
- `Use case: Give a user permissions to read and manage a group of agents`_


Creating and setting a Wazuh admin user
---------------------------------------

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a new role mapping, and give administrator permissions to the user.

#. Log into the Wazuh dashboard as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/internal-user.gif
      :title: Internal users page 
      :alt: Internal users page 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

#. Click **Create internal user**, provide a username and password, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the admin role, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Roles** to open the roles page.

   #. Search for the **all_access** role in the roles list and select it to open the details window.

   #. Click **Duplicate role**, assign a name to the new role, then click **Create** to confirm the action.

   #. Select the newly created role. 
   
   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

   .. note:: Reserved roles are restricted for any permission customizations. You can create a custom role with the same permissions or duplicate a reserved role for further customization.

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options, and click **Wazuh**.   
   #. Click **Wazuh** to open the Wazuh dashboard menu, select **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.

      .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/role-mapping.gif
         :title: Wazuh role mapping
         :alt: Wazuh role mapping
         :align: center
         :width: 80%

   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select ``administrator``.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.
  
   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh as *administrator*. 

   For the role mapping to take effect, make sure that ``run_as`` is set to ``true`` in the ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` configuration file. Restart the Wazuh dashboard service and clear your browser cache and cookies.

Creating and setting a Wazuh read-only user
-------------------------------------------

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a new role mapping, and give read-only permissions to the user.

#. Log into the Wazuh dashboard as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/internal-user.gif
      :title: Internal users page 
      :alt: Internal users page 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

#. Click **Create internal user**, provide a username and password, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the appropriate role, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Roles** to open the roles page.

   #. Click **Create role**, complete the empty fields with the following parameters, and then click **Create** to complete the task. 
     
      - **Name**: Assign a name to the role.
       
      - **Cluster permissions**: ``cluster_composite_ops_ro``

      - **Index**: ``*``

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

      - **Tenant permissions**: ``global_tenant`` and select the **Read only** option.

   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.   

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options and click **Wazuh**.  

   #. Click **Wazuh** to open the menu, select **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.

      .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/role-mapping.gif
         :title: Wazuh role mapping
         :alt: Wazuh role mapping
         :align: center
         :width: 80%

   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:

      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select ``readonly``.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.

   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh as *read-only*. 

   For the role mapping to take effect, make sure that ``run_as`` is set to ``true`` in the ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` configuration file. Restart the Wazuh dashboard service and clear your browser cache and cookies.


Creating an internal user and mapping it to Wazuh
-------------------------------------------------

Follow these steps to create an internal user and map it to a role of your choice. 

#. Log into the Wazuh dashboard as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/internal-user.gif
      :title: Internal users page 
      :alt: Internal users page 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

#. Click **Create internal user**, provide a username and password, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to a given role, follow these steps:
   
   #. Go to **Security**, select **Roles** to open the page, and click the name of the selected role to open the window. Alternatively, you can create a custom role by clicking **Create role**. 
   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options and click **Wazuh**.   
   #. Click **Wazuh** to open the Wazuh dashboard menu, select **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.

      .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/role-mapping.gif
         :title: Wazuh role mapping
         :alt: Wazuh role mapping
         :align: center
         :width: 80%

   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select the Wazuh roles that you want to map the user with.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.

      Wazuh includes an extensive list of :ref:`default policies<api_rbac_reference_default_policies>` and :ref:`roles <api_rbac_reference_default_roles>`. Additionally, you can create custom policies and roles to suit your needs. To see an example, check our :ref:`Use case: Give a user permissions to manage a group of agents <wazuh-rbac-use-case-agents-group>` below. 
  
   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh.

   For the role mapping to take effect, make sure that ``run_as`` is set to ``true`` in the ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` configuration file. Restart the Wazuh dashboard service and clear your browser cache and cookies.


.. _wazuh-rbac-use-case-agents-group:

Use case: Give a user permissions to read and manage a group of agents
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this use case, we explore how to create an internal user and give it permissions to read and manage an agents group.

This process involves adding a label in the agent group's centralized configuration to identify the Wazuh alerts coming from this group of agents, creating an internal user, and giving it reading permission only for those documents that correspond to the group of authorized agents.

It also involves mapping this user with the Wazuh API, creating a custom policy that includes permissions to read, restart, upgrade, among other actions over a group of agents, and finally creating a custom role and mapping it to our internal user.

As a final result, we will have a new user with permission to manage a group of agents and read the documents regarding the said group.

In this example, we have an environment with five agents. Agents ``001``, ``002``, and ``005`` belong to the ``Team_A`` group whereas agents ``003``, ``004``, and ``005`` belong to the ``Team_B`` group. To learn more about creating agents' groups, see :ref:`Grouping agents <grouping-agents>`. We will describe how to create a new user and give it permission to manage agents from ``Team_A``.


.. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/environment.png
    :title: Use case: Give a user permissions to manage a group of agents - Environment
    :alt: Use case: Give a user permissions to manage a group of agents - Environment
    :align: center
    :width: 100%


Adding an agents group label
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To prepare the environment, add a label in the ``Team_A`` centralized configuration ``agent.conf``. To learn more, see :doc:`Agent labels </user-manual/agents/labels>`.

#. Log into the Wazuh dashboard as administrator.

#. Click **Wazuh** to open the Wazuh dashboard menu, select **Management** and then **Groups** to open the page.

#. Select your group, for example, ``Team_A``.

#. Select **Files** and click **Edit group configuration**. 

#. Add a label to identify the group, for example: 

     .. code-block:: console
  
         <agent_config>
         	<labels>
         		<label key="group">Team_A</label>
         	</labels>
         </agent_config>

#. Click **Save** to complete the action.     

You have now added a group label that allows us to identify all the Wazuh alerts coming from this group of agents. Note that only new alerts will include this group label. 

Creating and mapping an internal user
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a custom role and map it to the new user.  

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

#. Click **Create internal user**, provide a username and password, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To create a custom role and map the user to it, follow these steps:
   
   #. Go to **Security**, select **Roles** to open the page.
   #. Click **Create role**, complete the empty fields with the following parameters: 
     
      - **Name**: Assign a name to the role.
       
      - **Cluster permissions**: ``cluster_composite_ops_ro``

      - **Index**: ``*``

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

   #. Click **Add another index permission** and unfold the new section **Add index permission**. Complete the empty fields with the following parameters and make sure to replace your group name accordingly: 

      - **Index**: ``wazuh-alerts*`` 

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

      - **Document level security**: 

        .. code-block:: console

          {
            "bool": {
              "must": {
                "match": {
                  "agent.labels.group": "Team_A"
                }
              }
            }
          }

        

   #. Click **Add another index permission** and unfold the new section **Add index permission**. Complete the empty fields with the following parameters and make sure to replace your group name accordingly: 

      - **Index**: ``wazuh-monitoring*`` 

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

      - **Document level security**: 

        .. code-block:: console
     
          {
            "bool": {
              "must": {
                "match": {
                  "group": "Team_A"
                }
              }
            }
          }          
            

   #. Under **Tenant permissions**, select **Tenant**: ``global_tenant`` and the **Read only** option.
   #. Click **Create** to complete the task.    
   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

You have now created an internal user and assigned it reading permissions over the Wazuh alerts and Wazuh monitoring documents from the authorized agents group. 

Mapping with Wazuh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options and click **Wazuh**.
#. Click **Wazuh** to open the Wazuh dashboard menu, select **Security**, and then **Policies** to open the policies page.
#. Click **Create policy** and complete the empty fields with the requested information.
   
      - **Policy name**: Assign a name to the new policy. 
      - **Action**: Select the actions that the user is allowed to perform, for example, ``agent:read``, and click **Add**. Select as many actions as needed. 
      - **Resource**: Select ``agent:group``.
      - **Resource identifier**: Write the name of the agents' group, for example, ``Team_A``, and click **Add**. You can add as many resources as needed. 
      - **Select an effect**: Select ``Allow``.  
       
       .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/create-policy.png
          :title: Creating a custom policy 
          :alt: Creating a custom policy
          :align: center
          :width: 100%
    
#. Click **Create policy** to complete the action.
#. Click **Roles** to open the tab, click **Create Role**, and fill in the empty fields with the requested information. 

      - **Role name**: Assign a name to the new role. 
      - **Policies**: Select the policy created previously. 
    
       .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/create-role.png
          :title: Creating a custom role
          :alt: Creating a custom role 
          :align: center
          :width: 100%


#. Click **Create role** to confirm the action.
#. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the requested information.
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select the role created previously. 
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.

       .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/create-new-role-mapping.png
          :title: Creating a new role mapping
          :alt: Creating a new role mapping 
          :align: center
          :width: 100%
  
#. Click **Save role mapping** to finish the action. 

  For the role mapping to take effect, make sure that ``run_as`` is set to ``true`` in the ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` configuration file. Restart the Wazuh dashboard service and clear your browser cache and cookies.

You have now created a new internal user and mapped it to manage a Wazuh agents' group. Authenticate with the new user and open the Wazuh dashboard, see that only ``Team_A`` agents' alerts and information are displayed.  


.. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/team_A-agents.png
    :title: New user's environment - Only information regarding Team_A agents is displayed
    :alt: New user's environment - Only information regarding Team_A agents is displayed
    :align: center
    :width: 100%

Commit message:

Add minimum cluster configuration permission

source/user-manual/user-administration/rbac.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: This section of the Wazuh documentation explains what a role-based access control system is and how you can use it with Wazuh. 
  
.. _wazuh-rbac:

Wazuh RBAC - How to create and map internal users
=================================================

Wazuh RBAC allows access to Wazuh resources based on the roles and policies assigned to the users. It is an easy-to-use administration system that enables to manage users' or entities' permissions to the system resources. To learn more, see the :doc:`Role-Based Access Control </user-manual/api/rbac/index>` section. 

The Wazuh platform includes an internal user database that can be used for authentication. It can also be used in addition to an external authentication system such as LDAP or Active Directory.  Learn how to create users and map them with Wazuh in the below sections.

- `Creating and setting a Wazuh admin user`_
- `Creating and setting a Wazuh read-only user`_ 
- `Creating an internal user and mapping it to Wazuh`_
- `Use case: Give a user permissions to read and manage a group of agents`_


Creating and setting a Wazuh admin user
---------------------------------------

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a new role mapping, and give administrator permissions to the user.

#. Log into the Wazuh dashboard as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/internal-user.gif
      :title: Internal users page 
      :alt: Internal users page 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

#. Click **Create internal user**, provide a username and password, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the admin role, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Roles** to open the roles page.

   #. Search for the **all_access** role in the roles list and select it to open the details window.

   #. Click **Duplicate role**, assign a name to the new role, then click **Create** to confirm the action.

   #. Select the newly created role. 
   
   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

   .. note:: Reserved roles are restricted for any permission customizations. You can create a custom role with the same permissions or duplicate a reserved role for further customization.

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options, and click **Wazuh**.   
   #. Click **Wazuh** to open the Wazuh dashboard menu, select **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.

      .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/role-mapping.gif
         :title: Wazuh role mapping
         :alt: Wazuh role mapping
         :align: center
         :width: 80%

   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select ``administrator``.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.
  
   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh as *administrator*. 

   For the role mapping to take effect, make sure that ``run_as`` is set to ``true`` in the ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` configuration file. Restart the Wazuh dashboard service and clear your browser cache and cookies.

Creating and setting a Wazuh read-only user
-------------------------------------------

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a new role mapping, and give read-only permissions to the user.

#. Log into the Wazuh dashboard as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/internal-user.gif
      :title: Internal users page 
      :alt: Internal users page 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

#. Click **Create internal user**, provide a username and password, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to the appropriate role, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Roles** to open the roles page.

   #. Click **Create role**, complete the empty fields with the following parameters, and then click **Create** to complete the task. 
     
      - **Name**: Assign a name to the role.
       
      - **Cluster permissions**: ``cluster_composite_ops_ro``

      - **Index**: ``*``

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

      - **Tenant permissions**: ``global_tenant`` and select the **Read only** option.

   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.   

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options and click **Wazuh**.  

   #. Click **Wazuh** to open the menu, select **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.

      .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/role-mapping.gif
         :title: Wazuh role mapping
         :alt: Wazuh role mapping
         :align: center
         :width: 80%

   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:

      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select ``readonly``.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.

   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh as *read-only*. 

   For the role mapping to take effect, make sure that ``run_as`` is set to ``true`` in the ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` configuration file. Restart the Wazuh dashboard service and clear your browser cache and cookies.


Creating an internal user and mapping it to Wazuh
-------------------------------------------------

Follow these steps to create an internal user and map it to a role of your choice. 

#. Log into the Wazuh dashboard as administrator.

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

   .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/internal-user.gif
      :title: Internal users page 
      :alt: Internal users page 
      :align: center
      :width: 80%

#. Click **Create internal user**, provide a username and password, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To map the user to a given role, follow these steps:
   
   #. Go to **Security**, select **Roles** to open the page, and click the name of the selected role to open the window. Alternatively, you can create a custom role by clicking **Create role**. 
   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

#. To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

   #. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options and click **Wazuh**.   
   #. Click **Wazuh** to open the Wazuh dashboard menu, select **Security**, and then **Roles mapping** to open the page.

      .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/role-mapping.gif
         :title: Wazuh role mapping
         :alt: Wazuh role mapping
         :align: center
         :width: 80%

   #. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the following parameters:
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select the Wazuh roles that you want to map the user with.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.

      Wazuh includes an extensive list of :ref:`default policies<api_rbac_reference_default_policies>` and :ref:`roles <api_rbac_reference_default_roles>`. Additionally, you can create custom policies and roles to suit your needs. To see an example, check our :ref:`Use case: Give a user permissions to manage a group of agents <wazuh-rbac-use-case-agents-group>` below. 
  
   #. Click **Save role mapping** to save and map the user with Wazuh.

   For the role mapping to take effect, make sure that ``run_as`` is set to ``true`` in the ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` configuration file. Restart the Wazuh dashboard service and clear your browser cache and cookies.


.. _wazuh-rbac-use-case-agents-group:

Use case: Give a user permissions to read and manage a group of agents
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this use case, we explore how to create an internal user and give it permissions to read and manage an agents group.

This process involves adding a label in the agent group's centralized configuration to identify the Wazuh alerts coming from this group of agents, creating an internal user, and giving it reading permission only for those documents that correspond to the group of authorized agents.

It also involves mapping this user with the Wazuh API, creating a custom policy that includes permissions to read, restart, upgrade, among other actions over a group of agents, and finally creating a custom role and mapping it to our internal user.

As a final result, we will have a new user with permission to manage a group of agents and read the documents regarding the said group.

In this example, we have an environment with five agents. Agents ``001``, ``002``, and ``005`` belong to the ``Team_A`` group whereas agents ``003``, ``004``, and ``005`` belong to the ``Team_B`` group. To learn more about creating agents' groups, see :ref:`Grouping agents <grouping-agents>`. We will describe how to create a new user and give it permission to manage agents from ``Team_A``.


.. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/environment.png
    :title: Use case: Give a user permissions to manage a group of agents - Environment
    :alt: Use case: Give a user permissions to manage a group of agents - Environment
    :align: center
    :width: 100%


Adding an agents group label
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To prepare the environment, add a label in the ``Team_A`` centralized configuration ``agent.conf``. To learn more, see :doc:`Agent labels </user-manual/agents/labels>`.

#. Log into the Wazuh dashboard as administrator.

#. Click **Wazuh** to open the Wazuh dashboard menu, select **Management** and then **Groups** to open the page.

#. Select your group, for example, ``Team_A``.

#. Select **Files** and click **Edit group configuration**. 

#. Add a label to identify the group, for example: 

     .. code-block:: console
  
         <agent_config>
         	<labels>
         		<label key="group">Team_A</label>
         	</labels>
         </agent_config>

#. Click **Save** to complete the action.     

You have now added a group label that allows us to identify all the Wazuh alerts coming from this group of agents. Note that only new alerts will include this group label. 

Creating and mapping an internal user
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Follow these steps to create an internal user, create a custom role and map it to the new user.  

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options, select **Security**, and then **Internal users** to open the internal users' page.

#. Click **Create internal user**, provide a username and password, and click **Create** to complete the action.

#. To create a custom role and map the user to it, follow these steps:
   
   #. Go to **Security**, select **Roles** to open the page.
   #. Click **Create role**, complete the empty fields with the following parameters: 
     
      - **Name**: Assign a name to the role.
       
      - **Cluster permissions**: ``cluster_composite_ops_ro``

      - **Index**: ``*``

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

   #. Click **Add another index permission** and unfold the new section **Add index permission**. Complete the empty fields with the following parameters and make sure to replace your group name accordingly: 

      - **Index**: ``wazuh-alerts*`` 

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

      - **Document level security**: 

        .. code-block:: console

          {
            "bool": {
              "must": {
                "match": {
                  "agent.labels.group": "Team_A"
                }
              }
            }
          }

        

   #. Click **Add another index permission** and unfold the new section **Add index permission**. Complete the empty fields with the following parameters and make sure to replace your group name accordingly: 

      - **Index**: ``wazuh-monitoring*`` 

      - **Index permissions**: ``read``

      - **Document level security**: 

        .. code-block:: console
     
          {
            "bool": {
              "must": {
                "match": {
                  "group": "Team_A"
                }
              }
            }
          }          
            

   #. Under **Tenant permissions**, select **Tenant**: ``global_tenant`` and the **Read only** option.
   #. Click **Create** to complete the task.    
   #. Select the **Mapped users** tab and click **Manage mapping**.
   #. Add the user you created in the previous steps and click **Map** to confirm the action.

You have now created an internal user and assigned it reading permissions over the Wazuh alerts and Wazuh monitoring documents from the authorized agents group. 

Mapping with Wazuh
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To map the user with Wazuh, follow these steps:

#. Click the upper-left menu icon **☰** to open the available options and click **Wazuh**.
#. Click **Wazuh** to open the Wazuh dashboard menu, select **Security**, and then **Policies** to open the policies page.
#. Click **Create policy** and complete the empty fields with the requested information.
   
      - **Policy name**: Assign a name to the new policy. 
      - **Action**: Select the actions that the user is allowed to perform, for example, ``agent:read``, and click **Add**. Select as many actions as needed. 
      - **Resource**: Select ``agent:group``.
      - **Resource identifier**: Write the name of the agents' group, for example, ``Team_A``, and click **Add**. You can add as many resources as needed. 
      - **Select an effect**: Select ``Allow``.  
       
       .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/create-policy.png
          :title: Creating a custom policy 
          :alt: Creating a custom policy
          :align: center
          :width: 100%
    
#. Click **Create policy** to complete the action.
#. Click **Roles** to open the tab, click **Create Role**, and fill in the empty fields with the requested information. 

      - **Role name**: Assign a name to the new role. 
      - **Policies**: Select the policy created previously. 
    
       .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/create-role.png
          :title: Creating a custom role
          :alt: Creating a custom role 
          :align: center
          :width: 100%


#. Click **Create role** to confirm the action.
#. Click **Create Role mapping** and complete the empty fields with the requested information.
   
      - **Role mapping name**: Assign a name to the role mapping.
      - **Roles**: Select the role created previously. Then select the **cluster_readonly** role to assign the user basic configuration reading permissions.
      - **Internal users**: Select the internal user created previously.

       .. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/create-new-role-mapping.png
          :title: Creating a new role mapping
          :alt: Creating a new role mapping 
          :align: center
          :width: 100%
  
#. Click **Save role mapping** to finish the action. 

  For the role mapping to take effect, make sure that ``run_as`` is set to ``true`` in the ``/usr/share/wazuh-dashboard/data/wazuh/config/wazuh.yml`` configuration file. Restart the Wazuh dashboard service and clear your browser cache and cookies.

You have now created a new internal user and mapped it to manage a Wazuh agents' group. Authenticate with the new user and open the Wazuh dashboard, see that only ``Team_A`` agents' alerts and information are displayed.  


.. thumbnail:: /images/manual/user-administration/rbac/team_A-agents.png
    :title: New user's environment - Only information regarding Team_A agents is displayed
    :alt: New user's environment - Only information regarding Team_A agents is displayed
    :align: center
    :width: 100%
