source/learning-wazuh/suricata.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _learning_wazuh_suricata:

Catch suspicious network traffic
================================

Wazuh is an excellent HIDS (Host-based Intrusion Detection System) among other things.  In addition to it's rule-based
analysis of log events from agents and other devices, it also performs file integrity monitoring and anomaly detection.
This provides a great deal of insight into the security of your digital assets.  However, some security issues are most
successfully detected by inspecting a server's actual network traffic, which generally is not accounted for in logs.
This is where a NIDS (Network Intrusion Detection System) can provide additional insight into your security in
a way that is highly complimentary to the HIDS functionality in Wazuh.

Suricata is one such NIDS solution, which is open source and can be quickly deployed either on dedicated hardware for
monitoring one or more transit points on your network, or directly on existing \*nix hosts to monitor just their own network
traffic.  Because Suricata is capable of generating JSON logs of NIDS events, it integrates beautifully with Wazuh.

In this lab we will deploy Suricata on linux-agent and elastic-server such that Wazuh picks up the Suricata NIDS events
and they can be seen with Kibana.  Instead of making the same Wazuh config changes to both Linux agents, we
will make use of Wazuh's centralized configuration feature to push out the extra Suricata-related Wazuh configuration
to the appropriate agents. Lastly, we will do a little GeoIP enrichment of the Suricata NIDS events with Logstash, showing
how easily we can augment existing log records with additional context information to make them more valuable.


Set up Suricata on both elastic-server and linux-agent
------------------------------------------------------

- On both agents as root, install Suricata and its dependencies, along with the Emerging Threats Open ruleset.

    .. code-block:: console

            cd /root
            yum -y install epel-release wget jq
            curl -O https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/jasonish/suricata-stable/repo/epel-7/jasonish-suricata-stable-epel-7.repo
            yum -y install suricata
            wget https://rules.emergingthreats.net/open/suricata-4.0/emerging.rules.tar.gz
            tar zxvf emerging.rules.tar.gz
            rm /etc/suricata/rules/* -f
            mv rules/*.rules /etc/suricata/rules/
            rm -f /etc/suricata/suricata.yaml
            wget -O /etc/suricata/suricata.yaml http://www.branchnetconsulting.com/wazuh/suricata.yaml
            systemctl daemon-reload
            systemctl enable suricata
            systemctl start suricata


Trigger NIDS alerts on both agents and see the output
-----------------------------------------------------

1. Generate a specific web request from both agents, known to trip NIDS rules:

    .. code-block:: console

        curl http://testmyids.com

2. On the agent, look at the latest alert in both the standard Suricata alert log and also in the JSON alert log.

    .. code-block:: console

        tail -n1 /var/log/suricata/fast.log
        tail -n1 /var/log/suricata/eve.json | jq .

3. Observe that the standard log is fairly simple with limited information.

    .. code-block:: console

        22:02/09/2018-21:32:13.120749  [**] [1:2100498:7] GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root [**] [Classification: Potentially Bad Traffic] [Priority: 2] {TCP} 82.165.177.154:80 -> 172.30.0.30:45504

4. See how much more data is provided in the JSON output, and how field names are provided.

    .. code-block:: json

        {
        "timestamp": "2018-02-09T21:32:13.120749+0000",
        "flow_id": 659410948727787,
        "in_iface": "eth0",
        "event_type": "alert",
        "src_ip": "82.165.177.154",
        "src_port": 80,
        "dest_ip": "172.30.0.30",
        "dest_port": 45504,
        "proto": "TCP",
        "alert": {
            "action": "allowed",
            "gid": 1,
            "signature_id": 2100498,
            "rev": 7,
            "signature": "GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root",
            "category": "Potentially Bad Traffic",
            "severity": 2
        },
        "http": {
            "hostname": "testmyids.com",
            "url": "/",
            "http_user_agent": "curl/7.29.0",
            "http_content_type": "text/html",
            "http_method": "GET",
            "protocol": "HTTP/1.1",
            "status": 200,
            "length": 39
        },
        "app_proto": "http",
        "flow": {
            "pkts_toserver": 5,
            "pkts_toclient": 4,
            "bytes_toserver": 415,
            "bytes_toclient": 522,
            "start": "2018-02-09T21:32:12.861163+0000"
        }
        }

    Not only do we get the basic NIDS alert details, but Suricata also includes http metadata and flow details that can be very helpful for alert assessment.

5. You might also be interested to see the actual NIDS rule that we triggered (found in ``/etc/suricata/rules/emerging-attack_response.rules``):

    .. code-block:: console

        alert ip any any -> any any (msg:"GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root"; content:"uid=0|28|root|29|"; classtype:bad-unknown; sid:2100498; rev:7; metadata:created_at 2010_09_23, updated_at 2010_09_23;)



Get the Suricata JSON data to Wazuh
-----------------------------------

Suricata is configured to write alerts to /var/log/suricata/eve.json which Wazuh does not monitor by default.  Both of our
Linux agents need an additional ``<localfile>`` config section like this:

    .. code-block:: xml

        <localfile>
            <log_format>json</log_format>
            <location>/var/log/suricata/eve.json</location>
        </localfile>

Instead of adding the above directly to ``ossec.conf`` on each Linux agent, this time let's use Wazuh manager's centralized agent
configuration facility.  This is a powerful feature that makes it feasible to manage the varied configurations of a diverse fleet of systems running
Wazuh agent.  Search the online documentation for "Centralized Configuration" for the full details about this.  In short, groups of agents share common
configuration content served up to them by Wazuh manager.  Agents automatically pick up and apply changes made to this content on the manager, and merge
the shared configuration with their local configuration.

1. Add elastic-server and linux-agent to a new agent group called "linux".

    - Create an agent group called "linux" which will cover all shared Linux agent configuration elements.

        .. code-block:: console

            # agent_groups -a -g linux -q
            Group 'linux' created.


    - List the registered agents on wazuh-manager with the ``manage_agents -l`` command.  Note the id numbers of the Linux agents.

        .. code-block:: console

            Available agents:
            ID: 001, Name: linux-agent, IP: any
            ID: 002, Name: elastic-server, IP: any
            ID: 003, Name: windows-agent, IP: any

    - Add each Linux agent to this new agent group by its ID number:

        .. code-block:: console

            # agent_groups -a -i 001 -g linux -q
            Group 'linux' set to agent '001'.
            # agent_groups -a -i 002 -g linux -q
            Group 'linux' set to agent '002'.

2. Put our Suricata-specific Wazuh agent config into the shared agent.conf file belonging to the "linux" agent group.  The file is ``/var/ossec/etc/shared/linux/agent.conf``.  Make it look like this:

    .. code-block:: xml

        <agent_config>
            <localfile>
                <log_format>json</log_format>
                <location>/var/log/suricata/eve.json</location>
            </localfile>
        </agent_config>

3. Confirm this shared config is valid by running ``verify-agent-conf`` on wazuh-manager.  Always run this after changing agent conf to prevent accidental deployment of a broken agent config to your agents.

    .. code-block:: console

        # verify-agent-conf

        verify-agent-conf: Verifying [/var/ossec/etc/shared/default/agent.conf]
        verify-agent-conf: OK

        verify-agent-conf: Verifying [/var/ossec/etc/shared/linux/agent.conf]
        verify-agent-conf: OK

4.  Since the config is proven valid, restart Wazuh manager with ``ossec-control restart`` to deploy the new agent.conf to the agents.  Each agent should pull down and apply this additional config almost immediately.  You can find the fetched agent.conf file on each agent at ``/var/ossec/etc/shared/agent.conf``:


See Suricata NIDS events in Kibana
----------------------------------

1. On each Linux agent, rerun the NIDS-tripping curl command again: ``curl http://testmyids.com``

2. Search Kibana for ``rule.id:86601``.  That is the rule that notices Suricata alerts.  Pick these fields for readability:
    - agent.name
    - data.alert.signature
    - data.proto
    - data.src_ip
    - data.dest_ip
    - data.dest_port
    - data.http.hostname

3. Expand one of the events and look over the vast amount of information available.

.. note::
    Yellow warning triangles on Kibana fields indicate that Kibana has never seen these new fields before and needs its field list refreshed.
    Click on the Management gear icon on the left, then on "Index Patterns", and then on the circular double arrow button in the upper
    right, and then on **[Refresh fields]**.  Click back on the Discover icon on the upper left to return to your search and notice that when
    you expand a record, the warning triangles on the new fields are gone.


Observe how Wazuh decodes Suricata events
-----------------------------------------

1. In Kibana, copy the entire full_log value for a Suricata alert.

2. Run ``ossec-logtest`` on wazuh-manager and paste in the copied Suricata alert record, observing how it is analyzed:

    .. code-block:: console

        **Phase 1: Completed pre-decoding.
            full event: '{"timestamp":"2018-02-09T21:32:13.120749+0000","flow_id":659410948727787,"in_iface":"eth0","event_type":"alert","src_ip":"82.165.177.154","src_port":80,"dest_ip":"172.30.0.30","dest_port":45504,"proto":"TCP","alert":{"action":"allowed","gid":1,"signature_id":2100498,"rev":7,"signature":"GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root","category":"Potentially Bad Traffic","severity":2},"http":{"hostname":"testmyids.com","url":"/","http_user_agent":"curl/7.29.0","http_content_type":"text/html","http_method":"GET","protocol":"HTTP/1.1","status":200,"length":39},"app_proto":"http","flow":{"pkts_toserver":5,"pkts_toclient":4,"bytes_toserver":415,"bytes_toclient":522,"start":"2018-02-09T21:32:12.861163+0000"}}'
            timestamp: '(null)'
            hostname: 'wazuh-server'
            program_name: '(null)'
            log: '{"timestamp":"2018-02-09T21:32:13.120749+0000","flow_id":659410948727787,"in_iface":"eth0","event_type":"alert","src_ip":"82.165.177.154","src_port":80,"dest_ip":"172.30.0.30","dest_port":45504,"proto":"TCP","alert":{"action":"allowed","gid":1,"signature_id":2100498,"rev":7,"signature":"GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root","category":"Potentially Bad Traffic","severity":2},"http":{"hostname":"testmyids.com","url":"/","http_user_agent":"curl/7.29.0","http_content_type":"text/html","http_method":"GET","protocol":"HTTP/1.1","status":200,"length":39},"app_proto":"http","flow":{"pkts_toserver":5,"pkts_toclient":4,"bytes_toserver":415,"bytes_toclient":522,"start":"2018-02-09T21:32:12.861163+0000"}}'

        **Phase 2: Completed decoding.
            decoder: 'json'
            timestamp: '2018-02-09T21:32:13.120749+0000'
            flow_id: '659410948727787.000000'
            in_iface: 'eth0'
            event_type: 'alert'
            src_ip: '82.165.177.154'
            src_port: '80'
            dest_ip: '172.30.0.30'
            dest_port: '45504'
            proto: 'TCP'
            alert.action: 'allowed'
            alert.gid: '1'
            alert.signature_id: '2100498'
            alert.rev: '7'
            alert.signature: 'GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root'
            alert.category: 'Potentially Bad Traffic'
            alert.severity: '2'
            http.hostname: 'testmyids.com'
            http.url: '/'
            http.http_user_agent: 'curl/7.29.0'
            http.http_content_type: 'text/html'
            http.http_method: 'GET'
            http.protocol: 'HTTP/1.1'
            http.status: '200'
            http.length: '39'
            app_proto: 'http'
            flow.pkts_toserver: '5'
            flow.pkts_toclient: '4'
            flow.bytes_toserver: '415'
            flow.bytes_toclient: '522'
            flow.start: '2018-02-09T21:32:12.861163+0000'

        **Phase 3: Completed filtering (rules).
            Rule id: '86601'
            Level: '3'
            Description: 'Suricata: Alert - GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root'
        **Alert to be generated.

3. Notice the decoder used is just called "json".  This decoder is used whenever Wazuh detects JSON records.  With Wazuh's ability to natively decode incoming JSON log records, you do not have to build your own decoders for applications that support JSON logging.


Spice things up with a little GeoIP
-----------------------------------

You may have noticed that there were no Geolocation fields in the Kibana records for Suricata events.  In Wazuh's default configuration for
Logstash, Geolocation is only performed on fields ``@src_ip`` and ``data.srcip``, while with Suricata events we would need to act on fields
``data.src_ip`` and ``data.dest_ip``.  To keep from overcrowding our Suricata Kibana records, let's just fetch the name and abbreviation of
the country for each source and destination IP address.

1. On elastic-server, insert this additional filter section to /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf just above the output section:

    .. code-block:: console

        filter {
            if "suricata" in [rule][groups] {
                geoip {
                    source => "[data][src_ip]"
                    target => "geoip_src"
                    fields => ["country_code2", "country_name"]
                    tag_on_failure => []
                }
                geoip {
                    source => "[data][dest_ip]"
                    target => "geoip_dest"
                    fields => ["country_code2", "country_name"]
                    tag_on_failure => []
                }
            }
        }

2. Restart logstash on elastic-server with ``systemctl restart logstash``.

3. Trigger some more NIDS events on one of more of your Linux agents with curl ``http://testmyids.com``.

4. Look through the new Suricata events in Kibana, observing they now have either source or destination geoip fields populated.  Private IPs of course cannot be geolocated.

    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | .. thumbnail:: ../images/learning-wazuh/labs/suricata-geoip.png                               |
    |     :title: flood                                                                             |
    |     :align: center                                                                            |
    |     :width: 75%                                                                               |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


If you have time, you could also...
-----------------------------------

1. Build a CDB list of the the signature_id values of Suricata rules that call for immediate attention.  Maybe these would be special NIDS events you would want to get SMS alerted about in real time.  Create a custom child rule to 86601 that looks for matches in your CDB and has a high severity level like 12.

2. Build another CDB list of signature_id values of rules you choose to classify as "noise" and want to suppress entirely.  Then make another child rule with a severity level of 0.

3. Experiment with making Suricata-specific visualization in Kibana.  Create a new dashboard to pull them all together.

Commit message:

Changed ossec-control command with systemctl/service alternative (#620)

source/learning-wazuh/suricata.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _learning_wazuh_suricata:

Catch suspicious network traffic
================================

Wazuh is an excellent HIDS (Host-based Intrusion Detection System) among other things.  In addition to it's rule-based
analysis of log events from agents and other devices, it also performs file integrity monitoring and anomaly detection.
This provides a great deal of insight into the security of your digital assets.  However, some security issues are most
successfully detected by inspecting a server's actual network traffic, which generally is not accounted for in logs.
This is where a NIDS (Network Intrusion Detection System) can provide additional insight into your security in
a way that is highly complimentary to the HIDS functionality in Wazuh.

Suricata is one such NIDS solution, which is open source and can be quickly deployed either on dedicated hardware for
monitoring one or more transit points on your network, or directly on existing \*nix hosts to monitor just their own network
traffic.  Because Suricata is capable of generating JSON logs of NIDS events, it integrates beautifully with Wazuh.

In this lab we will deploy Suricata on linux-agent and elastic-server such that Wazuh picks up the Suricata NIDS events
and they can be seen with Kibana.  Instead of making the same Wazuh config changes to both Linux agents, we
will make use of Wazuh's centralized configuration feature to push out the extra Suricata-related Wazuh configuration
to the appropriate agents. Lastly, we will do a little GeoIP enrichment of the Suricata NIDS events with Logstash, showing
how easily we can augment existing log records with additional context information to make them more valuable.


Set up Suricata on both elastic-server and linux-agent
------------------------------------------------------

- On both agents as root, install Suricata and its dependencies, along with the Emerging Threats Open ruleset.

    .. code-block:: console

            cd /root
            yum -y install epel-release wget jq
            curl -O https://copr.fedorainfracloud.org/coprs/jasonish/suricata-stable/repo/epel-7/jasonish-suricata-stable-epel-7.repo
            yum -y install suricata
            wget https://rules.emergingthreats.net/open/suricata-4.0/emerging.rules.tar.gz
            tar zxvf emerging.rules.tar.gz
            rm /etc/suricata/rules/* -f
            mv rules/*.rules /etc/suricata/rules/
            rm -f /etc/suricata/suricata.yaml
            wget -O /etc/suricata/suricata.yaml http://www.branchnetconsulting.com/wazuh/suricata.yaml
            systemctl daemon-reload
            systemctl enable suricata
            systemctl start suricata


Trigger NIDS alerts on both agents and see the output
-----------------------------------------------------

1. Generate a specific web request from both agents, known to trip NIDS rules:

    .. code-block:: console

        curl http://testmyids.com

2. On the agent, look at the latest alert in both the standard Suricata alert log and also in the JSON alert log.

    .. code-block:: console

        tail -n1 /var/log/suricata/fast.log
        tail -n1 /var/log/suricata/eve.json | jq .

3. Observe that the standard log is fairly simple with limited information.

    .. code-block:: console

        22:02/09/2018-21:32:13.120749  [**] [1:2100498:7] GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root [**] [Classification: Potentially Bad Traffic] [Priority: 2] {TCP} 82.165.177.154:80 -> 172.30.0.30:45504

4. See how much more data is provided in the JSON output, and how field names are provided.

    .. code-block:: json

        {
        "timestamp": "2018-02-09T21:32:13.120749+0000",
        "flow_id": 659410948727787,
        "in_iface": "eth0",
        "event_type": "alert",
        "src_ip": "82.165.177.154",
        "src_port": 80,
        "dest_ip": "172.30.0.30",
        "dest_port": 45504,
        "proto": "TCP",
        "alert": {
            "action": "allowed",
            "gid": 1,
            "signature_id": 2100498,
            "rev": 7,
            "signature": "GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root",
            "category": "Potentially Bad Traffic",
            "severity": 2
        },
        "http": {
            "hostname": "testmyids.com",
            "url": "/",
            "http_user_agent": "curl/7.29.0",
            "http_content_type": "text/html",
            "http_method": "GET",
            "protocol": "HTTP/1.1",
            "status": 200,
            "length": 39
        },
        "app_proto": "http",
        "flow": {
            "pkts_toserver": 5,
            "pkts_toclient": 4,
            "bytes_toserver": 415,
            "bytes_toclient": 522,
            "start": "2018-02-09T21:32:12.861163+0000"
        }
        }

    Not only do we get the basic NIDS alert details, but Suricata also includes http metadata and flow details that can be very helpful for alert assessment.

5. You might also be interested to see the actual NIDS rule that we triggered (found in ``/etc/suricata/rules/emerging-attack_response.rules``):

    .. code-block:: console

        alert ip any any -> any any (msg:"GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root"; content:"uid=0|28|root|29|"; classtype:bad-unknown; sid:2100498; rev:7; metadata:created_at 2010_09_23, updated_at 2010_09_23;)



Get the Suricata JSON data to Wazuh
-----------------------------------

Suricata is configured to write alerts to /var/log/suricata/eve.json which Wazuh does not monitor by default.  Both of our
Linux agents need an additional ``<localfile>`` config section like this:

    .. code-block:: xml

        <localfile>
            <log_format>json</log_format>
            <location>/var/log/suricata/eve.json</location>
        </localfile>

Instead of adding the above directly to ``ossec.conf`` on each Linux agent, this time let's use Wazuh manager's centralized agent
configuration facility.  This is a powerful feature that makes it feasible to manage the varied configurations of a diverse fleet of systems running
Wazuh agent.  Search the online documentation for "Centralized Configuration" for the full details about this.  In short, groups of agents share common
configuration content served up to them by Wazuh manager.  Agents automatically pick up and apply changes made to this content on the manager, and merge
the shared configuration with their local configuration.

1. Add elastic-server and linux-agent to a new agent group called "linux".

    - Create an agent group called "linux" which will cover all shared Linux agent configuration elements.

        .. code-block:: console

            # agent_groups -a -g linux -q
            Group 'linux' created.


    - List the registered agents on wazuh-manager with the ``manage_agents -l`` command.  Note the id numbers of the Linux agents.

        .. code-block:: console

            Available agents:
            ID: 001, Name: linux-agent, IP: any
            ID: 002, Name: elastic-server, IP: any
            ID: 003, Name: windows-agent, IP: any

    - Add each Linux agent to this new agent group by its ID number:

        .. code-block:: console

            # agent_groups -a -i 001 -g linux -q
            Group 'linux' set to agent '001'.
            # agent_groups -a -i 002 -g linux -q
            Group 'linux' set to agent '002'.

2. Put our Suricata-specific Wazuh agent config into the shared agent.conf file belonging to the "linux" agent group.  The file is ``/var/ossec/etc/shared/linux/agent.conf``.  Make it look like this:

    .. code-block:: xml

        <agent_config>
            <localfile>
                <log_format>json</log_format>
                <location>/var/log/suricata/eve.json</location>
            </localfile>
        </agent_config>

3. Confirm this shared config is valid by running ``verify-agent-conf`` on wazuh-manager.  Always run this after changing agent conf to prevent accidental deployment of a broken agent config to your agents.

    .. code-block:: console

        # verify-agent-conf

        verify-agent-conf: Verifying [/var/ossec/etc/shared/default/agent.conf]
        verify-agent-conf: OK

        verify-agent-conf: Verifying [/var/ossec/etc/shared/linux/agent.conf]
        verify-agent-conf: OK

4. Since the config is proven valid, restart Wazuh manager to deploy the new configuration to the agents.

a. For Systemd:

  .. code-block:: console

    # systemctl restart wazuh-manager

b. For SysV Init:

  .. code-block:: console

    # service wazuh-manager restart

Each agent should pull down and apply this additional configuration almost immediately. You can find the fetched configuration on each agent at ``/var/ossec/etc/shared/agent.conf``.

See Suricata NIDS events in Kibana
----------------------------------

1. On each Linux agent, rerun the NIDS-tripping curl command again: ``curl http://testmyids.com``

2. Search Kibana for ``rule.id:86601``.  That is the rule that notices Suricata alerts.  Pick these fields for readability:
    - agent.name
    - data.alert.signature
    - data.proto
    - data.src_ip
    - data.dest_ip
    - data.dest_port
    - data.http.hostname

3. Expand one of the events and look over the vast amount of information available.

.. note::
    Yellow warning triangles on Kibana fields indicate that Kibana has never seen these new fields before and needs its field list refreshed.
    Click on the Management gear icon on the left, then on "Index Patterns", and then on the circular double arrow button in the upper
    right, and then on **[Refresh fields]**.  Click back on the Discover icon on the upper left to return to your search and notice that when
    you expand a record, the warning triangles on the new fields are gone.


Observe how Wazuh decodes Suricata events
-----------------------------------------

1. In Kibana, copy the entire full_log value for a Suricata alert.

2. Run ``ossec-logtest`` on wazuh-manager and paste in the copied Suricata alert record, observing how it is analyzed:

    .. code-block:: console

        **Phase 1: Completed pre-decoding.
            full event: '{"timestamp":"2018-02-09T21:32:13.120749+0000","flow_id":659410948727787,"in_iface":"eth0","event_type":"alert","src_ip":"82.165.177.154","src_port":80,"dest_ip":"172.30.0.30","dest_port":45504,"proto":"TCP","alert":{"action":"allowed","gid":1,"signature_id":2100498,"rev":7,"signature":"GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root","category":"Potentially Bad Traffic","severity":2},"http":{"hostname":"testmyids.com","url":"/","http_user_agent":"curl/7.29.0","http_content_type":"text/html","http_method":"GET","protocol":"HTTP/1.1","status":200,"length":39},"app_proto":"http","flow":{"pkts_toserver":5,"pkts_toclient":4,"bytes_toserver":415,"bytes_toclient":522,"start":"2018-02-09T21:32:12.861163+0000"}}'
            timestamp: '(null)'
            hostname: 'wazuh-server'
            program_name: '(null)'
            log: '{"timestamp":"2018-02-09T21:32:13.120749+0000","flow_id":659410948727787,"in_iface":"eth0","event_type":"alert","src_ip":"82.165.177.154","src_port":80,"dest_ip":"172.30.0.30","dest_port":45504,"proto":"TCP","alert":{"action":"allowed","gid":1,"signature_id":2100498,"rev":7,"signature":"GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root","category":"Potentially Bad Traffic","severity":2},"http":{"hostname":"testmyids.com","url":"/","http_user_agent":"curl/7.29.0","http_content_type":"text/html","http_method":"GET","protocol":"HTTP/1.1","status":200,"length":39},"app_proto":"http","flow":{"pkts_toserver":5,"pkts_toclient":4,"bytes_toserver":415,"bytes_toclient":522,"start":"2018-02-09T21:32:12.861163+0000"}}'

        **Phase 2: Completed decoding.
            decoder: 'json'
            timestamp: '2018-02-09T21:32:13.120749+0000'
            flow_id: '659410948727787.000000'
            in_iface: 'eth0'
            event_type: 'alert'
            src_ip: '82.165.177.154'
            src_port: '80'
            dest_ip: '172.30.0.30'
            dest_port: '45504'
            proto: 'TCP'
            alert.action: 'allowed'
            alert.gid: '1'
            alert.signature_id: '2100498'
            alert.rev: '7'
            alert.signature: 'GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root'
            alert.category: 'Potentially Bad Traffic'
            alert.severity: '2'
            http.hostname: 'testmyids.com'
            http.url: '/'
            http.http_user_agent: 'curl/7.29.0'
            http.http_content_type: 'text/html'
            http.http_method: 'GET'
            http.protocol: 'HTTP/1.1'
            http.status: '200'
            http.length: '39'
            app_proto: 'http'
            flow.pkts_toserver: '5'
            flow.pkts_toclient: '4'
            flow.bytes_toserver: '415'
            flow.bytes_toclient: '522'
            flow.start: '2018-02-09T21:32:12.861163+0000'

        **Phase 3: Completed filtering (rules).
            Rule id: '86601'
            Level: '3'
            Description: 'Suricata: Alert - GPL ATTACK_RESPONSE id check returned root'
        **Alert to be generated.

3. Notice the decoder used is just called "json".  This decoder is used whenever Wazuh detects JSON records.  With Wazuh's ability to natively decode incoming JSON log records, you do not have to build your own decoders for applications that support JSON logging.


Spice things up with a little GeoIP
-----------------------------------

You may have noticed that there were no Geolocation fields in the Kibana records for Suricata events.  In Wazuh's default configuration for
Logstash, Geolocation is only performed on fields ``@src_ip`` and ``data.srcip``, while with Suricata events we would need to act on fields
``data.src_ip`` and ``data.dest_ip``.  To keep from overcrowding our Suricata Kibana records, let's just fetch the name and abbreviation of
the country for each source and destination IP address.

1. On elastic-server, insert this additional filter section to /etc/logstash/conf.d/01-wazuh.conf just above the output section:

    .. code-block:: console

        filter {
            if "suricata" in [rule][groups] {
                geoip {
                    source => "[data][src_ip]"
                    target => "geoip_src"
                    fields => ["country_code2", "country_name"]
                    tag_on_failure => []
                }
                geoip {
                    source => "[data][dest_ip]"
                    target => "geoip_dest"
                    fields => ["country_code2", "country_name"]
                    tag_on_failure => []
                }
            }
        }

2. Restart logstash on elastic-server with ``systemctl restart logstash``.

3. Trigger some more NIDS events on one of more of your Linux agents with curl ``http://testmyids.com``.

4. Look through the new Suricata events in Kibana, observing they now have either source or destination geoip fields populated.  Private IPs of course cannot be geolocated.

    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
    | .. thumbnail:: ../images/learning-wazuh/labs/suricata-geoip.png                               |
    |     :title: flood                                                                             |
    |     :align: center                                                                            |
    |     :width: 75%                                                                               |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


If you have time, you could also...
-----------------------------------

1. Build a CDB list of the the signature_id values of Suricata rules that call for immediate attention.  Maybe these would be special NIDS events you would want to get SMS alerted about in real time.  Create a custom child rule to 86601 that looks for matches in your CDB and has a high severity level like 12.

2. Build another CDB list of signature_id values of rules you choose to classify as "noise" and want to suppress entirely.  Then make another child rule with a severity level of 0.

3. Experiment with making Suricata-specific visualization in Kibana.  Create a new dashboard to pull them all together.
