source/user-manual/capabilities/key-polling.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _key-polling:

Key polling
===========

.. versionadded:: 3.8.0

Wazuh module that allows to fetch keys stored on an external database.

- `How it works`_
- `Input`_
- `Output`_
- `Example scripts`_

How it works
------------
This module allows to retrieve the agent information from an external database, like MySQL or any database engine, for registering it to the ``client.keys`` file.

To do so you need to make a binary or script in any language that can connect to your database engine and retrieve it. It's necesary to have the ``ossec-authd`` daemon running.

Below you can see the flow diagram:

.. thumbnail:: ../../images/manual/key-polling-flow.png
    :title: Key polling module flow diagram
    :align: center
    :width: 100%

Input
-----

If the ``socket`` tag is not specified in the configuration block, the key polling module will call the executable with the following parameters, depending on the polling type:

- Poll agent by ID
- Poll agent by IP

When polling by ID, the manager will retrieve the agent key by querying its ID, so the input parameters that the program will receive are for example:

::

    ./agent_key_pull.py id 001


When polling by IP address, the manager will retrieve the agent key by querying it's IP address, so the input parameters that the program will receive are for example:

::

    ./agent_key_pull.py ip 192.168.1.100


When the ``socket`` tag is specified the module will send the parameters through the specified socket and read the response. The performance improvement over executing the program like explained above is significant.

The format in which the program will receive the data is ``option:value``, where option can be ``id`` or ``ip`` depending on the polling type.

.. note ::
    If the socket option is specified, and the socket is not available, the program that has to turn on will be called in case it has been specified.

Output
------
The output of your script must be a JSON object in the standard output.

On success example:

.. code-block:: console

    {
        "error": 0,
        "data": {
            "id": "001",
            "name": "my_agent",
            "ip": "192.168.1.100",
            "key": "ac575526e8bbcddf6654e5aa0a39fa60a0020e5d34ed1370916368bdaf5f0c71"
        }
    }

error
    Error identificator number.

    +--------------------+----------------+
    | Allowed characters | Digits only    |
    +--------------------+----------------+
    | Allowed size       | 1 digit        |
    +--------------------+----------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes, must be 0 |
    +--------------------+----------------+

data
    Data in json format with the following fields.

    +--------------------+-------------------+
    | Allowed fields     | id, name, ip, key |
    +--------------------+-------------------+

id
    Agent identificator number.

    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Allowed characters | Digits only   |
    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Allowed size       | 3 to 8 digits |
    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes           |
    +--------------------+---------------+

name
    Agent name.

    +--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
    | Allowed characters | Alphanumeric characters, ``-``, ``_`` and ``.``  |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
    | Allowed size       | Up to 128 bytes                                  |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes                                              |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+

address
    Allowed source address range in CIDR format. If specified, the manager will only accept the agent if its source IP matches this address.

    +--------------------+----------------------------+
    | Format             | CIDR. Netmask is optional. |
    +--------------------+----------------------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes                        |
    +--------------------+----------------------------+
    | Reserved values    | None                       |
    +--------------------+----------------------------+
    | Aliases            | ``any`` = ``0.0.0.0/0``    |
    +--------------------+----------------------------+

key
    String that will take part in the external message encryption.

    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Allowed characters | Printable characters |
    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Allowed size       | Up to 128 bytes      |
    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Unique value       | No                   |
    +--------------------+----------------------+

On error example:

.. code-block:: console

    {
        "error": 1,
        "message": "Your error message"
    }

error
    Error identificator number.

    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Allowed characters | Digits only   |
    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes           |
    +--------------------+---------------+

message
    String that will show the message error.

    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Allowed characters | Printable characters |
    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Unique value       | No                   |
    +--------------------+----------------------+

Example scripts
---------------

Suppose you have a table named ``agent`` in your database with the following structure:

+--------------------+----------------------+
| Field              | Type                 |
+--------------------+----------------------+
| id                 | Varchar(8)           |
+--------------------+----------------------+
| name               | Varchar(128)         |
+--------------------+----------------------+
| ip                 | Varchar(19)          |
+--------------------+----------------------+
| agent_key          | Varchar(128)         |
+--------------------+----------------------+

.. note::
    If your executable is a script that does not include shebang, you must include its interpreter in the `sexec_path` parameter of the configuration.

The python script bellow shows an example of an agent key retrieval from the database (MySQL).

.. code-block:: python

    import sys
    import json
    import mysql.connector
    from mysql.connector import Error

    def main():

        if len(sys.argv) < 3:
            print json.dumps({"error": 1, "message": "Too few arguments"})
            return

        try:
            conn = mysql.connector.connect(host='localhost',
                                        database='your_database',
                                        user='user',
                                        password='secret')
        except Error as e:
            print json.dumps({"error": 2, "message": str(e)})
            return

        cursor = conn.cursor()
        data = sys.argv[2]

        if sys.argv[1] == "id":
            cursor.execute("SELECT id,name,ip,`agent_key` FROM agent WHERE id = '{}'".format(data))
        elif sys.argv[1] == "ip":
            cursor.execute("SELECT id,name,ip,`agent_key` FROM agent WHERE ip = '{}'".format(data))
        else:
            print json.dumps({"error": 3, "message": "Bad arguments given"})
            return

        row = cursor.fetchone()

        if row:
            print json.dumps({"error": 0, "data": {"id" : row[0], "name": row[1], "ip": row[2], "key": row[3]}},sort_keys=False)
        else:
            print json.dumps({"error": 4, "message": "No agent key found"},sort_keys=False)


    if __name__ == '__main__':
        main()

The php script bellow shows an example of an agent key retrieval from the database (MySQL).

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
        $servername = "localhost";
        $username = "user";
        $password = "secret";
        $dbname = "your_database";

        if($argc < 3){
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 1, 'message' => 'To few arguments'));
            exit;
        }

        $conn = new mysqli($servername, $username, $password, $dbname);
        if ($conn->connect_error) {
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 2, 'message' => 'Could not connect to database'));
            exit;
        }

        $data = $argv[2];

        if($argv[1] == "id"){
            $sql = "SELECT id,name,ip,`agent_key` FROM agent WHERE id = '$data'";
        } else if ($argv[1] == "ip") {
            $sql = "SELECT id,name,ip,`agent_key` FROM agent WHERE ip = '$data'";
        } else {
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 3, 'message' => 'Bad arguments given'));
            exit;
        }

        $result = $conn->query($sql);

        if ($result->num_rows > 0) {
            $row = $result->fetch_assoc();
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 0, 'data' => array( "id" => $row["id"], "ip" => $row["ip"],"key" => $row["agent_key"],"name" => $row["name"])));
        } else {
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 4, 'message' => 'No agent key found'));
        }
        $conn->close();
    ?>

The perl script bellow shows an example of an agent key retrieval from the database (MySQL).

.. code-block:: perl

    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use DBI;

    my $num_args = $#ARGV + 1;

    if ($num_args < 2) {
        print "{\"error\": 1, \"message\": \"Too few arguments\"}\n";
        exit;
    }

    my $data = $ARGV[1];
    my $dbh = DBI->connect("DBI:mysql:database=your_database;host=localhost",
                        "user", "secret",
                        {'RaiseError' => 1});

    my $sql = "";

    if ($ARGV[0] eq "id") {
        $sql = "SELECT * FROM agent WHERE id = '$data'";
    } elsif ($ARGV[0] eq "ip") {
        $sql = "SELECT * FROM agent WHERE ip = '$data'";
    }

    my $sth = $dbh->prepare($sql);
    $sth->execute();
    my $rows = $sth->rows;

    if ($rows) {
        my $row = $sth->fetchrow_hashref();
        print "{\"error\": 0, \"data\": {\"id\" : \"$row->{'id'}\", \"name\": \"$row->{'name'}\", \"ip\": \"$row->{'ip'}\", \"key\": \"$row->{'agent_key'}\"}}\n";
    } else{
        print "{\"error\": 4, \"message\": \"No agent key found\"}\n";
    }

    $sth->finish();
    $dbh->disconnect();

.. note::
    Remember to protect your script or binary against SQL injections using parameter binding.

Commit message:

Update diagrams of the keypolling module

source/user-manual/capabilities/key-polling.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _key-polling:

Key polling
===========

.. versionadded:: 3.8.0

Wazuh module that allows to fetch keys stored on an external database.

- `How it works`_
- `Input`_
- `Output`_
- `Example scripts`_

How it works
------------
This module allows to retrieve the agent information from an external database, like MySQL or any database engine, for registering it to the ``client.keys`` file.

To do this, it is necessary to create a binary or script in any language that can be integrated into your database engine and thus request the agents information. It's necesary to have the ``ossec-authd`` daemon running.

Below you can see the flow diagram:

.. thumbnail:: ../../images/manual/keypolling/key-polling-flow.png
    :title: Key polling module flow diagram
    :align: center
    :width: 100%

Input
-----

If the ``socket`` tag is not specified in the configuration block, the key polling module will call the executable with the following parameters, depending on the polling type:

- Poll agent by ID
- Poll agent by IP

When polling by ID, the manager will retrieve the agent key by querying its ID, so the input parameters that the program will receive are for example:

::

    ./agent_key_pull.py id 001


When polling by IP address, the manager will retrieve the agent key by querying it's IP address, so the input parameters that the program will receive are for example:

::

    ./agent_key_pull.py ip 192.168.1.100

.. thumbnail:: ../../images/manual/keypolling/keypolling1.png
    :title: No socket method: one program call per request.
    :align: center
    :width: 100%

.. note ::
    Note that the above examples represent how Wazuh will call your program.


When the ``socket`` tag is specified the module will send the parameters through the specified socket and read the response. The performance improvement over executing the program like explained above is significant.

The format in which the program will receive the data is ``option:value``, where option can be ``id`` or ``ip`` depending on the polling type.

.. thumbnail:: ../../images/manual/keypolling/keypolling0.png
    :title: Method with socket: requests directly to the socket.
    :align: center
    :width: 100%

.. note ::
    If the socket option is specified, and the socket is not available, the program that has to turn on will be called in case it has been specified.

Output
------
The output of your script must be a JSON object in the standard output.

On success example:

.. code-block:: console

    {
        "error": 0,
        "data": {
            "id": "001",
            "name": "my_agent",
            "ip": "192.168.1.100",
            "key": "ac575526e8bbcddf6654e5aa0a39fa60a0020e5d34ed1370916368bdaf5f0c71"
        }
    }

error
    Error identificator number.

    +--------------------+----------------+
    | Allowed characters | Digits only    |
    +--------------------+----------------+
    | Allowed size       | 1 digit        |
    +--------------------+----------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes, must be 0 |
    +--------------------+----------------+

data
    Data in json format with the following fields.

    +--------------------+-------------------+
    | Allowed fields     | id, name, ip, key |
    +--------------------+-------------------+

id
    Agent identificator number.

    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Allowed characters | Digits only   |
    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Allowed size       | 3 to 8 digits |
    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes           |
    +--------------------+---------------+

name
    Agent name.

    +--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
    | Allowed characters | Alphanumeric characters, ``-``, ``_`` and ``.``  |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
    | Allowed size       | Up to 128 bytes                                  |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes                                              |
    +--------------------+--------------------------------------------------+

address
    Allowed source address range in CIDR format. If specified, the manager will only accept the agent if its source IP matches this address.

    +--------------------+----------------------------+
    | Format             | CIDR. Netmask is optional. |
    +--------------------+----------------------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes                        |
    +--------------------+----------------------------+
    | Reserved values    | None                       |
    +--------------------+----------------------------+
    | Aliases            | ``any`` = ``0.0.0.0/0``    |
    +--------------------+----------------------------+

key
    String that will take part in the external message encryption.

    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Allowed characters | Printable characters |
    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Allowed size       | Up to 128 bytes      |
    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Unique value       | No                   |
    +--------------------+----------------------+

On error example:

.. code-block:: console

    {
        "error": 1,
        "message": "Your error message"
    }

error
    Error identificator number.

    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Allowed characters | Digits only   |
    +--------------------+---------------+
    | Unique value       | Yes           |
    +--------------------+---------------+

message
    String that will show the message error.

    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Allowed characters | Printable characters |
    +--------------------+----------------------+
    | Unique value       | No                   |
    +--------------------+----------------------+

Example scripts
---------------

Suppose you have a table named ``agent`` in your database with the following structure:

+--------------------+----------------------+
| Field              | Type                 |
+--------------------+----------------------+
| id                 | Varchar(8)           |
+--------------------+----------------------+
| name               | Varchar(128)         |
+--------------------+----------------------+
| ip                 | Varchar(19)          |
+--------------------+----------------------+
| agent_key          | Varchar(128)         |
+--------------------+----------------------+

.. note::
    If your executable is a script that does not include shebang, you must include its interpreter in the `sexec_path` parameter of the configuration.

The python script bellow shows an example of an agent key retrieval from the database (MySQL).

.. code-block:: python

    import sys
    import json
    import mysql.connector
    from mysql.connector import Error

    def main():

        if len(sys.argv) < 3:
            print json.dumps({"error": 1, "message": "Too few arguments"})
            return

        try:
            conn = mysql.connector.connect(host='localhost',
                                        database='your_database',
                                        user='user',
                                        password='secret')
        except Error as e:
            print json.dumps({"error": 2, "message": str(e)})
            return

        cursor = conn.cursor()
        data = sys.argv[2]

        if sys.argv[1] == "id":
            cursor.execute("SELECT id,name,ip,`agent_key` FROM agent WHERE id = '{}'".format(data))
        elif sys.argv[1] == "ip":
            cursor.execute("SELECT id,name,ip,`agent_key` FROM agent WHERE ip = '{}'".format(data))
        else:
            print json.dumps({"error": 3, "message": "Bad arguments given"})
            return

        row = cursor.fetchone()

        if row:
            print json.dumps({"error": 0, "data": {"id" : row[0], "name": row[1], "ip": row[2], "key": row[3]}},sort_keys=False)
        else:
            print json.dumps({"error": 4, "message": "No agent key found"},sort_keys=False)


    if __name__ == '__main__':
        main()

The php script bellow shows an example of an agent key retrieval from the database (MySQL).

.. code-block:: php

    <?php
        $servername = "localhost";
        $username = "user";
        $password = "secret";
        $dbname = "your_database";

        if($argc < 3){
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 1, 'message' => 'To few arguments'));
            exit;
        }

        $conn = new mysqli($servername, $username, $password, $dbname);
        if ($conn->connect_error) {
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 2, 'message' => 'Could not connect to database'));
            exit;
        }

        $data = $argv[2];

        if($argv[1] == "id"){
            $sql = "SELECT id,name,ip,`agent_key` FROM agent WHERE id = '$data'";
        } else if ($argv[1] == "ip") {
            $sql = "SELECT id,name,ip,`agent_key` FROM agent WHERE ip = '$data'";
        } else {
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 3, 'message' => 'Bad arguments given'));
            exit;
        }

        $result = $conn->query($sql);

        if ($result->num_rows > 0) {
            $row = $result->fetch_assoc();
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 0, 'data' => array( "id" => $row["id"], "ip" => $row["ip"],"key" => $row["agent_key"],"name" => $row["name"])));
        } else {
            echo json_encode(array('error' => 4, 'message' => 'No agent key found'));
        }
        $conn->close();
    ?>

The perl script bellow shows an example of an agent key retrieval from the database (MySQL).

.. code-block:: perl

    use strict;
    use warnings;
    use DBI;

    my $num_args = $#ARGV + 1;

    if ($num_args < 2) {
        print "{\"error\": 1, \"message\": \"Too few arguments\"}\n";
        exit;
    }

    my $data = $ARGV[1];
    my $dbh = DBI->connect("DBI:mysql:database=your_database;host=localhost",
                        "user", "secret",
                        {'RaiseError' => 1});

    my $sql = "";

    if ($ARGV[0] eq "id") {
        $sql = "SELECT * FROM agent WHERE id = '$data'";
    } elsif ($ARGV[0] eq "ip") {
        $sql = "SELECT * FROM agent WHERE ip = '$data'";
    }

    my $sth = $dbh->prepare($sql);
    $sth->execute();
    my $rows = $sth->rows;

    if ($rows) {
        my $row = $sth->fetchrow_hashref();
        print "{\"error\": 0, \"data\": {\"id\" : \"$row->{'id'}\", \"name\": \"$row->{'name'}\", \"ip\": \"$row->{'ip'}\", \"key\": \"$row->{'agent_key'}\"}}\n";
    } else{
        print "{\"error\": 4, \"message\": \"No agent key found\"}\n";
    }

    $sth->finish();
    $dbh->disconnect();

.. note::
    Remember to protect your script or binary against SQL injections using parameter binding.
