source/installation_guide/installing-wazuh-server/packages-installation/wazuh_server_rpm.rst, before:

.. _wazuh_server_rpm:

Install Wazuh server with RPM packages
===========================================

Adding Wazuh repositories
-------------------------------------------

First thing we need to do is to add the Wazuh repositories to your system. Also, if you prefer download the package directly, it is possible to download the :ref:`required package <packages>`.

**1.** Run the following command depending on your operating system:

    a) For CentOS::

        cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
        [wazuh_repo]
        gpgcheck=1
        gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
        enabled=1
        name=CentOS-$releasever - Wazuh
        baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/el/$releasever/$basearch
        protect=1
        EOF

    b) For RHEL::

        cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
        [wazuh_repo]
        gpgcheck=1
        gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
        enabled=1
        name=RHEL-$releasever - Wazuh
        baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/rhel/$releasever/$basearch
        protect=1
        EOF

    c) For Fedora::

        cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
        [wazuh_repo]
        gpgcheck=1
        gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
        name=Fedora-$releasever - Wazuh
        enabled=1
        baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/fc/$releasever/$basearch
        protect=1
        EOF

Installing manager
-------------------------------------------

On your terminal, install the Wazuh manager::

	yum install wazuh-manager

Once the process is completed, you can check the state with

	a) For Systemd::

			systemctl status wazuh-manager

	b) For SysV Init::

			service wazuh-manager status

Installing API
-------------------------------------------

**1.** NodeJS >= 4.6.1 is required in order to run the API. If you do not have NodeJS installed or your version is older than 4.6.1, we recommend to add the official repositories::

	curl --silent --location https://rpm.nodesource.com/setup_6.x | bash -

And then, install nodejs::

  	yum install nodejs

**2.** Install the Wazuh API. It will update NodeJS if it is required::

	yum install wazuh-api

Once the process is completed, you can check the state with

  	a) For Systemd::

  			systemctl status wazuh-api

  	b) For SysV Init::

  			service wazuh-api status

**3.** Python >= 2.7 is required in order to run the API. It is installed by default or included in the official repositories in the most of Linux distributions.

It is possible to set the path of Python in the API configuration at */var/ossec/api/configuration/config.js*::

    config.python = [
        // Default installation
        {
            bin: "python",
            lib: ""
        },
        // Package 'python27' for CentOS 6
        {
            bin: "/opt/rh/python27/root/usr/bin/python",
            lib: "/opt/rh/python27/root/usr/lib64"
        }
    ];

For CentOS 6 and Redhat 6, you can install the package *python27*, that installs Python 2.7 at */opt/rh/python27*:

    a) For CentOS 6::

        yum install -y centos-release-SCL
        yum install -y python27

    b) For RHEL 6::

        yum install python27

        # You may need enable the repository:
        #   yum-config-manager --enable REPOSITORY_NAME

        #   Examples:
        #   yum-config-manager --enable rhui-REGION-rhel-server-rhscl
        #   yum-config-manager --enable rhel-server-rhscl-6-rpms

Installing Filebeat
-------------------------------------------

Filebeat is the tool that will read the alerts and archived events, forwarding the data to the Logstash server (on the ELK cluster).

The rpm package is suitable for installation on Red Hat, Centos and other RPM-based systems.

1. Install the GPG keys from Elastic and the Elastic repository::

	rpm --import https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

	cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/elastic.repo << EOF
	[elastic-5.x]
	name=Elastic repository for 5.x packages
	baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/yum
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
	enabled=1
	autorefresh=1
	type=rpm-md
	EOF

2. Install Filebeat::

	yum install filebeat

3. Download the settings template for Filebeat from the Wazuh repository::

	curl -so /etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/filebeat/filebeat.yml

4. Edit the file ``/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml`` and replace *ELASTIC_SERVER_IP* for the IP address or the hostname of the Elastic Stack server. For example::

	output:
	  logstash:
	    hosts: ["ELASTIC_SERVER_IP:5000"]

.. warning::
    In case you are setting up a single-host architecture (Wazuh Manager and Elastic stack on the same server, use **localhost** as *ELASTIC_SERVER_IP*.

5. Enable and start the Filebeat service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable filebeat.service
		systemctl start filebeat.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add filebeat
		service filebeat start

Next steps
----------

Once you have installed the manager and Filebeat, you need to :ref:`install Elastic Stack <elastic_server_rpm>`.

Commit message:

New template (#37)
Update Getting started and Installation guide

source/installation_guide/installing-wazuh-server/packages-installation/wazuh_server_rpm.rst, after:

.. _wazuh_server_rpm:

Install Wazuh server with RPM packages
===========================================

Adding the Wazuh repository
-------------------------------------------

The first thing you need to do is to add the Wazuh repository to your Wazuh server. Alternatively, if you prefer to download the wazuh-manager package directly, you can find it :ref:`here <packages>`.

**1.** Run the following command that corresponds to your specific Linux distribution:

    a) For CentOS::

        cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
        [wazuh_repo]
        gpgcheck=1
        gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
        enabled=1
        name=CentOS-$releasever - Wazuh
        baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/el/$releasever/$basearch
        protect=1
        EOF

    b) For RHEL::

        cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
        [wazuh_repo]
        gpgcheck=1
        gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
        enabled=1
        name=RHEL-$releasever - Wazuh
        baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/rhel/$releasever/$basearch
        protect=1
        EOF

    c) For Fedora::

        cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
        [wazuh_repo]
        gpgcheck=1
        gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
        name=Fedora-$releasever - Wazuh
        enabled=1
        baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/yum/fc/$releasever/$basearch
        protect=1
        EOF

Installing Wazuh manager
-------------------------------------------

While logged into your Wazuh server as root, install the Wazuh manager with the appropriate command::

	yum install wazuh-manager

Once the process is complete, you can check the state with

	a) For Systemd::

			systemctl status wazuh-manager

	b) For SysV Init::

			service wazuh-manager status

Installing Wazuh API
-------------------------------------------

**1.** NodeJS >= 4.6.1 is required in order to run the Wazuh API. If you do not have NodeJS installed or your version is older than 4.6.1, we recommend you add the official repository like this::

	curl --silent --location https://rpm.nodesource.com/setup_6.x | bash -

and then, install nodejs::

  	yum install nodejs

**2.** Install the Wazuh API. It will update NodeJS if it is required::

	yum install wazuh-api

**3.** Once the process is completed, you can check the state with

  	a) For Systemd::

  			systemctl status wazuh-api

  	b) For SysV Init::

  			service wazuh-api status

**4.** Python >= 2.7 is required in order to run the Wazuh API. It is installed by default or included in the official repositories in most Linux distributions.

It is possible to set a cutom Python path for the API to use in */var/ossec/api/configuration/config.js*, in case the stock version of Python in your distro is too old::

    config.python = [
        // Default installation
        {
            bin: "python",
            lib: ""
        },
        // Package 'python27' for CentOS 6
        {
            bin: "/opt/rh/python27/root/usr/bin/python",
            lib: "/opt/rh/python27/root/usr/lib64"
        }
    ];

For CentOS 6 and Red Hat 6, you can install the package *python27*, which installs Python 2.7 at */opt/rh/python27* in parallel to the older stock version of python already present:

    a) For CentOS 6::

        yum install -y centos-release-SCL
        yum install -y python27

    b) For RHEL 6::

        yum install python27

        # You may need to first enable a repository in order to get python27, with a command like this:
        #   yum-config-manager --enable rhui-REGION-rhel-server-rhscl
        #   yum-config-manager --enable rhel-server-rhscl-6-rpms

Installing Filebeat
-------------------------------------------

Filebeat is the tool on the Wazuh server that will securely forward the alerts and archived events to the Logstash service on the Elastic Stack server(s).  In a single-server configuration, you may entirely skip installing Filebeat, since Logstash will be able to read the event/alert data directly from the local filesystem without the assistance of a forwarder.

The rpm package is suitable for installation on Red Hat, CentOS and other modern RPM-based systems.

1. Install the GPG keys from Elastic, and the Elastic repository::

	rpm --import https://packages.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch

	cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/elastic.repo << EOF
	[elastic-5.x]
	name=Elastic repository for 5.x packages
	baseurl=https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/yum
	gpgcheck=1
	gpgkey=https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch
	enabled=1
	autorefresh=1
	type=rpm-md
	EOF

2. Install Filebeat::

	yum install filebeat

3. Download the Filebeat config file from the Wazuh repository, which is preconfigured to forward Wazuh alerts to Logstash::

	curl -so /etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/filebeat/filebeat.yml

4. Edit the file ``/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml`` and replace *ELASTIC_SERVER_IP*  with the IP address or the hostname of the Elastic Stack server. For example::

	output:
	  logstash:
	    hosts: ["ELASTIC_SERVER_IP:5000"]

5. Enable and start the Filebeat service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable filebeat.service
		systemctl start filebeat.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		chkconfig --add filebeat
		service filebeat start

Next steps
----------

Once you have installed the manager, API, and -- if needed -- Filebeat as well, you are ready to :ref:`install Elastic Stack <elastic_server_rpm>`.
