source/installation_guide/installing-wazuh-server/packages-installation/wazuh_server_deb.rst, before:

.. _wazuh_server_deb:

Install Wazuh server with Debian packages
===========================================

Adding Wazuh repositories
-------------------------------------------

First thing we need to do is to add the Wazuh repositories to your system. Also, if you prefer download the package directly, it is possible to download it from :ref:`required package <packages>`.

**1.** In order to perform this procedure properly, packages ``curl`` and ``apt-transport-https`` must be installed into your system. If they are not, install them::

	apt-get install curl apt-transport-https

**2.** Install the GPG key::

	curl -s https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH | apt-key add -

**3.** Add the Wazuh repository depending on your operating system:

.. note::
	To check your version, you can use: ``lsb_release -a``, ``cat /etc/issue`` or ``uname -a``

- Debian 7 "Wheezy"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt wheezy main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Debian 8 "Jessie"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt jessie main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Debian "stretch" (testing)::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt stretch main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Debian "sid" (unstable)::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt sid main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 12.04 "Precise Pangolin"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt precise main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 14.04 "Trusty Tahr"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt trusty main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 15.04 "Vivid Vervet"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt vivid main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 15.10 "Wily Werewolf"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt wily main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 16.04 "Xenial Xerus"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt xenial main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 16.10 "Yakkety Yak"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt yakkety main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

**4.** Update the package information::

	apt-get update


Installing manager
-------------------------------------------

On your terminal, install the Wazuh manager::

	apt-get install wazuh-manager

Once the process is completed, you can check the state with

	a) For Systemd::

			systemctl status wazuh-manager

	b) For SysV Init::

			service wazuh-manager status


Installing API
-------------------------------------------

**1.** NodeJS >= 4.6.1 is required in order to run the API. If you do not have installed NodeJS or your version is older than 4.6.1, we recommend to add the official repositories::

	curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_6.x | sudo -E bash -

And then, install nodejs::

	apt-get install nodejs

**2.** Install the Wazuh API. It will update NodeJS if it is required::

	apt-get install wazuh-api

Once the process is completed, you can check the state with

	a) For Systemd::

			systemctl status wazuh-api

	b) For SysV Init::

			service wazuh-api status

**3.** Python >= 2.7 is required in order to run the API. It is installed by default or included in the official repositories in the most of Linux distributions.

It is possible to set the path of Python in the API configuration at */var/ossec/api/configuration/config.js*::

    config.python = [
        // Default installation
        {
            bin: "python",
            lib: ""
        },
        // Package 'python27' for CentOS 6
        {
            bin: "/opt/rh/python27/root/usr/bin/python",
            lib: "/opt/rh/python27/root/usr/lib64"
        }
    ];

Installing Filebeat
-------------------------------------------

Filebeat is the tool that will read the alerts and archived events, forwarding the data to the Logstash server (on the ELK cluster).

The deb package is suitable for Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-based systems.

1. Install the GPG keys from Elastic and the Elastic repository::

	curl -s https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | apt-key add -
	apt-get install apt-transport-https
	echo "deb https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/apt stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-5.x.list
	apt-get update

2. Install Filebeat::

	apt-get install filebeat

3. Download the settings template for Filebeat from the Wazuh repository, this template will let Elasticsearch know which field should be analyzed in which way::

	curl -so /etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/filebeat/filebeat.yml

4. Edit the file ``/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml`` and replace *ELASTIC_SERVER_IP* for the IP address or the hostname of the Elastic Stack server. For example::

	output:
	  logstash:
	    hosts: ["ELASTIC_SERVER_IP:5000"]

.. warning::
    In case you are setting up a single-host architecture (Wazuh Manager and Elastic stack on the same server, use **localhost** as *ELASTIC_SERVER_IP*.


5. Enable and start the Filebeat service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable filebeat.service
		systemctl start filebeat.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		update-rc.d filebeat defaults 95 10
		service filebeat start

Next steps
----------

Once you have installed the manager and Filebeat, you need to :ref:`install Elastic Stack <elastic_server_deb>`.

Commit message:

New template (#37)
Update Getting started and Installation guide

source/installation_guide/installing-wazuh-server/packages-installation/wazuh_server_deb.rst, after:

.. _wazuh_server_deb:

Install Wazuh server with Deb packages
===========================================

Adding Wazuh repositories
-------------------------------------------

The first thing you need to do is to add the Wazuh repository to your Wazuh server. Alternatively, if you prefer to download the wazuh-manager package directly, you can find it :ref:`here <packages>`.

**1.** In order to perform this procedure properly, packages ``curl`` and ``apt-transport-https`` must be installed into your system. If they are not, install them::

	apt-get install curl apt-transport-https

**2.** Install the GPG key::

	curl -s https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH | apt-key add -

**3.** Add the Wazuh repository depending on your operating system:

.. note::
	To check your version, you can use: ``lsb_release -a``

- Debian 7 "Wheezy"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt wheezy main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Debian 8 "Jessie"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt jessie main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Debian "stretch"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt stretch main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Debian "sid"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt sid main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 12.04 "Precise Pangolin"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt precise main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 14.04 "Trusty Tahr"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt trusty main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 15.04 "Vivid Vervet"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt vivid main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 15.10 "Wily Werewolf"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt wily main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 16.04 "Xenial Xerus"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt xenial main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

- Ubuntu 16.10 "Yakkety Yak"::

    echo "deb https://packages.wazuh.com/apt yakkety main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list

**4.** Update the package information::

	apt-get update


Installing manager
-------------------------------------------

On your terminal, install the Wazuh manager::

	apt-get install wazuh-manager

Once the process is completed, you can check the state with

	a) For Systemd::

			systemctl status wazuh-manager

	b) For SysV Init::

			service wazuh-manager status


Installing Wazuh API
-------------------------------------------

**1.** NodeJS >= 4.6.1 is required in order to run the API. If you do not have installed NodeJS or your version is older than 4.6.1, we recommend you add the official repository like this::

	curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_6.x | sudo -E bash -

and then, install nodejs::

	apt-get install nodejs

**2.** Install the Wazuh API. It will update NodeJS if it is required::

	apt-get install wazuh-api

**3.** Once the process is completed, you can check the state with

	a) For Systemd::

			systemctl status wazuh-api

	b) For SysV Init::

			service wazuh-api status

**4.** Python >= 2.7 is required in order to run the API. It is installed by default or included in the official repositories in most Linux distributions.

It is possible to set a custom Python path for the API to use in */var/ossec/api/configuration/config.js*, in case the stock version of Python in your distro is too old::

    config.python = [
        // Default installation
        {
            bin: "python",
            lib: ""
        },
        // Package 'python27' for CentOS 6
        {
            bin: "/opt/rh/python27/root/usr/bin/python",
            lib: "/opt/rh/python27/root/usr/lib64"
        }
    ];

Installing Filebeat
-------------------------------------------

Filebeat is the tool on the Wazuh server that will securely forward the alerts and archived events to the Logstash service on the Elastic Stack server(s).  In a single-server configuration, you may entirely skip installing Filebeat, since Logstash will be able to read the event/alert data directly from the local filesystem without the assistance of a forwarder.

The deb package is suitable for Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-based systems.

1. Install the GPG keys from Elastic, and the Elastic repository::

	curl -s https://artifacts.elastic.co/GPG-KEY-elasticsearch | apt-key add -
	apt-get install apt-transport-https
	echo "deb https://artifacts.elastic.co/packages/5.x/apt stable main" | tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/elastic-5.x.list
	apt-get update

2. Install Filebeat::

	apt-get install filebeat

3. Download the Filebeat config file from the Wazuh repository, which is preconfigured to forward Wazuh alerts to Logstash::

	curl -so /etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wazuh/wazuh/master/extensions/filebeat/filebeat.yml

4. Edit the file ``/etc/filebeat/filebeat.yml`` and replace *ELASTIC_SERVER_IP* with the IP address or the hostname of the Elastic Stack server. For example::

	output:
	  logstash:
	    hosts: ["ELASTIC_SERVER_IP:5000"]

5. Enable and start the Filebeat service:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl daemon-reload
		systemctl enable filebeat.service
		systemctl start filebeat.service

	b) For SysV Init::

		update-rc.d filebeat defaults 95 10
		service filebeat start

Next steps
----------

Once you have installed the manager, API, and -- if needed -- Filebeat as well, you are ready to :ref:`install Elastic Stack <elastic_server_deb>`.
