source/upgrade-guide/compatibility-matrix/index.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: Check out the compatibility matrix of the upgrade process of the Wazuh server and other components.
  
Compatibility matrix
====================

When upgrading Wazuh there are specific compatibility requirements to take into consideration.

Wazuh central components and agents
-----------------------------------

The Wazuh central components must share the same version numbers down to the patch category for the correct operation. For example:

-  Wazuh manager |WAZUH_CURRENT|, Wazuh indexer |WAZUH_CURRENT|, and Wazuh dashboard |WAZUH_CURRENT|. 

- The Wazuh indexer |WAZUH_CURRENT| is compatible with Filebeat-OSS |FILEBEAT_LATEST|. 

The Wazuh manager version must always be **newer than or equal to**  the Wazuh agents versions. For example:

-  Wazuh manager |WAZUH_CURRENT| and Wazuh agent 4.2.7
-  Wazuh manager |WAZUH_CURRENT| and Wazuh agent |WAZUH_CURRENT|

The Wazuh manager is also compatible with OSSEC agents but not all capabilities are available with them. 

.. _wazuh_kibana_compatibility_matrix:    

Elastic and the Wazuh Kibana plugin
-----------------------------------

The following Elastic Stack and Open Distro for Elasticsearch versions are compatible with the Wazuh manager |WAZUH_CURRENT| using the Wazuh Kibana plugin:

+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| Elastic Stack version    |   Open Distro version     |
+==========================+===========================+
| 7.10.2                   | 1.13.2                    |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| 7.16.0–7.16.3            |                           |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+
| 7.17.0–7.17.11           |                           |
+--------------------------+---------------------------+

You can find more information on the `Wazuh Kibana plugin repository <https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh-kibana-app/wiki/Compatibility>`_.

.. _wazuh_and_splunk_app:

Splunk and the Wazuh Splunk app
-------------------------------

The following Splunk versions are compatible with the Wazuh manager |WAZUH_CURRENT| using the Wazuh Splunk app |WAZUH_SPLUNK_CURRENT|:

+------------------+
| Splunk version   |
+==================+
| 8.1.1–8.1.10     |
+------------------+
| 8.2.0–8.2.8      |
+------------------+

You can find more information on the `Wazuh Splunk app repository <https://github.com/wazuh/wazuh-splunk#installation>`__.

Commit message:

Remove Kibana and Splunk from documentation

source/upgrade-guide/compatibility-matrix/index.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
  :description: Check out the compatibility matrix of the upgrade process of the Wazuh server and other components.
  
Compatibility matrix
====================

When upgrading Wazuh there are specific compatibility requirements to take into consideration.

Wazuh central components and agents
-----------------------------------

The Wazuh central components must share the same version numbers down to the patch category for the correct operation. For example:

-  Wazuh manager |WAZUH_CURRENT|, Wazuh indexer |WAZUH_CURRENT|, and Wazuh dashboard |WAZUH_CURRENT|. 

- The Wazuh indexer |WAZUH_CURRENT| is compatible with Filebeat-OSS |FILEBEAT_LATEST|. 

The Wazuh manager version must always be **newer than or equal to**  the Wazuh agents versions. For example:

-  Wazuh manager |WAZUH_CURRENT| and Wazuh agent 4.2.7
-  Wazuh manager |WAZUH_CURRENT| and Wazuh agent |WAZUH_CURRENT|

The Wazuh manager is also compatible with OSSEC agents but not all capabilities are available with them. 

.. _wazuh_kibana_compatibility_matrix:    

Elastic and the Wazuh Kibana plugin
-----------------------------------

Elastic Stack and Open Distro for Elasticsearch are no longer compatible with the Wazuh manager since v4.6.0.


Splunk and the Wazuh Splunk app
-------------------------------

Splunk is no longer compatible with the Wazuh manager since v4.6.0.
