source/migrating-from-ossec/ossec-packages-manager.rst, before:

.. _up_ossec_manager:

Migrating OSSEC manager installed from packages
===================================================

1. Backup your current configuration
------------------------------------

Stop OSSEC: ::

    $ /var/ossec/bin/ossec-control stop

Check if you have enough space to create a copy of ``/var/ossec``: ::

    $ du -h /var/ossec | tail -n1
    $ df -h /var

Backup ``/var/ossec``: ::

    $ cp -rp /var/ossec /var/ossec_backup


2. Remove your current installation
-----------------------------------

Debian and Ubuntu:
::

    $ apt-get remove ossec-hids --purge

CentOS and Red Hat:
::

    $ yum remove ossec-hids

Remove directory:

::

    $ rm -rf /var/ossec


3. Install Wazuh server
--------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to install Wazuh server:

- :doc:`Install Wazuh server with RPM packages <../installation-guide/installing-wazuh-server/wazuh_server_rpm>`
- :doc:`Install Wazuh server with Deb packages <../installation-guide/installing-wazuh-server/wazuh_server_deb>`


4. Restore configuration
------------------------

Stop OSSEC: ::

    $ systemctl stop wazuh-manager

Restore mandatory files: ::

    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/agentless/.passlist /var/ossec/agentless/
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/client.keys /var/ossec/etc/
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/ossec.conf /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf.orig
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/local_internal_options.conf /var/ossec/etc/local_internal_options.conf
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/local_decoder.xml /var/ossec/etc/decoders/local_decoder.xml
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/shared/agent.conf /var/ossec/etc/shared/agent.conf
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/rules/local_rules.xml /var/ossec/etc/rules/local_rules.xml
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/queue/rids/sender_counter /var/ossec/queue/rids/sender_counter

Restore optional files

The following files are required in order to preserve alerts log files and syscheck/rootcheck databases:
::

    $ cp -rp /var/ossec_backup/logs/archives/* /var/ossec/logs/archives
    $ cp -rp /var/ossec_backup/logs/alerts/* /var/ossec/logs/alerts
    $ cp -rp /var/ossec_backup/queue/rootcheck/* /var/ossec/queue/rootcheck
    $ cp -rp /var/ossec_backup/queue/syscheck/* /var/ossec/queue/syscheck


5. Review ossec.conf
------------------------

The previous configuration file is saved as ``/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf.orig``. You should review the new configuration file ``/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf`` with the old one in case that you want to add some setting from the previous configuration.

6. Start Wazuh
--------------

::

    $ /var/ossec/bin/ossec-control start

Commit message:

Added deprecated message plus a proper link to current documentation (#460)

source/migrating-from-ossec/ossec-packages-manager.rst, after:

.. _up_ossec_manager:

.. warning::

    You are looking at documentation for an older release. Not what you want? See the `current release documentation <https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/migrating-from-ossec/ossec-server.html>`_.

Migrating OSSEC manager installed from packages
===================================================

1. Backup your current configuration
------------------------------------

Stop OSSEC: ::

    $ /var/ossec/bin/ossec-control stop

Check if you have enough space to create a copy of ``/var/ossec``: ::

    $ du -h /var/ossec | tail -n1
    $ df -h /var

Backup ``/var/ossec``: ::

    $ cp -rp /var/ossec /var/ossec_backup


2. Remove your current installation
-----------------------------------

Debian and Ubuntu:
::

    $ apt-get remove ossec-hids --purge

CentOS and Red Hat:
::

    $ yum remove ossec-hids

Remove directory:

::

    $ rm -rf /var/ossec


3. Install Wazuh server
--------------------------

Follow the next guide in order to install Wazuh server:

- :doc:`Install Wazuh server with RPM packages <../installation-guide/installing-wazuh-server/wazuh_server_rpm>`
- :doc:`Install Wazuh server with Deb packages <../installation-guide/installing-wazuh-server/wazuh_server_deb>`


4. Restore configuration
------------------------

Stop OSSEC: ::

    $ systemctl stop wazuh-manager

Restore mandatory files: ::

    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/agentless/.passlist /var/ossec/agentless/
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/client.keys /var/ossec/etc/
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/ossec.conf /var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf.orig
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/local_internal_options.conf /var/ossec/etc/local_internal_options.conf
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/local_decoder.xml /var/ossec/etc/decoders/local_decoder.xml
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/etc/shared/agent.conf /var/ossec/etc/shared/agent.conf
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/rules/local_rules.xml /var/ossec/etc/rules/local_rules.xml
    $ cp -p /var/ossec_backup/queue/rids/sender_counter /var/ossec/queue/rids/sender_counter

Restore optional files

The following files are required in order to preserve alerts log files and syscheck/rootcheck databases:
::

    $ cp -rp /var/ossec_backup/logs/archives/* /var/ossec/logs/archives
    $ cp -rp /var/ossec_backup/logs/alerts/* /var/ossec/logs/alerts
    $ cp -rp /var/ossec_backup/queue/rootcheck/* /var/ossec/queue/rootcheck
    $ cp -rp /var/ossec_backup/queue/syscheck/* /var/ossec/queue/syscheck


5. Review ossec.conf
------------------------

The previous configuration file is saved as ``/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf.orig``. You should review the new configuration file ``/var/ossec/etc/ossec.conf`` with the old one in case that you want to add some setting from the previous configuration.

6. Start Wazuh
--------------

::

    $ /var/ossec/bin/ossec-control start
