source/amazon/configuration/dependencies.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _amazon_dependencies:

Installing dependencies
=======================

.. note::
  The integration with AWS S3 can be done at the Wazuh manager (which also behaves as an agent) or directly at a Wazuh agent. This choice merely depends on how you decide to access your AWS infrastructure in your environment.

Python Boto3 module is required on the system running the Wazuh module to pull AWS events.

Pip
---

The required modules can be installed with Pip, the Python package manager. The majority of UNIX distributions have this tool availabel in their software repositories, but it can be compiled from sources too:

a) For **CentOS/RHEL/Fedora** systems:

.. code-block:: console

  # yum install python-pip

b) For **Debian/Ubuntu** systems:

.. code-block:: console

  # apt-get update && apt-get install python-pip

c) From sources:

.. code-block:: console

  # curl -O https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py
  # python get-pip.py

Boto3
-----

`Boto3 <https://boto3.readthedocs.io/>`_ is the official package supported by Amazon to manage AWS resources. It will be used to download the log messages from the S3 Bucket. To install this package, execute the following command:

.. code-block:: console

  # pip install boto3

Commit message:

Update documentation for cluster and all python dependent components (#924)
* Adapt documentation to new cluster

* Remove step where python is installed in the API installation guide

* Update dependencies installation for AWS wodle

* Remove dependencies installation page in Azure wodle

* Remove dependencies for Slack and VT integrations

* Added CPython build depdencies

* Added a brief explanation about the CPython dependencies

* Rework the installing wazuh manager steps

* Remove CentOS/Redhat 5 from the compatibility matrix for managers.

Also, this commit updates all the compatibility matrix from this page.

* Simplify the columns from Manager and Agent support

The consecutive equal columns are merged in a single column that groups all of them.

* Improved the CPython dependencies installation guidelines

* Fix versions for Elastic and Splunk matrix

source/amazon/configuration/dependencies.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _amazon_dependencies:

Installing dependencies
=======================

.. note::
  **The integration** with AWS S3 **can be configured in the Wazuh manager** (which also behaves as an agent) **or directly in a Wazuh agent**. This choice merely depends on how you decide to access your AWS infrastructure in your environment. 

.. warning::
  The Wazuh manager includes all dependencies installed, **this steps are only necessary** when configuring the integration **in a Wazuh agent**.

Pip
---

The required modules can be installed with Pip, the Python package manager. The majority of UNIX distributions have this tool availabel in their software repositories, but it can be compiled from sources too:

a) For **CentOS/RHEL/Fedora** systems:

.. code-block:: console

  # yum install python-pip

b) For **Debian/Ubuntu** systems:

.. code-block:: console

  # apt-get update && apt-get install python-pip

c) From sources:

.. code-block:: console

  # curl -O https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py
  # python get-pip.py

Boto3
-----

`Boto3 <https://boto3.readthedocs.io/>`_ is the official package supported by Amazon to manage AWS resources. It will be used to download the log messages from the S3 Bucket. To install this package, execute the following command:

.. code-block:: console

  # pip install boto3
