source/installing-splunk/index.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _installation_splunk:

Installing Splunk
=================

This guide describes the Splunk Enterprise installation process for two different types of distributed architecture, along with the Splunk forwarder and the Wazuh app for Splunk.

- The **single-instance architecture** is recommended for testing and evaluation purposes, or also for small-medium sized environments.
- The **multi-instance architecture** is recommended for larger environments with huge amounts of data (in this case, Wazuh alerts) and users.

+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| Installation type                                                      | Description                                                 |
+========================================================================+=============================================================+
| :ref:`Single-instance installation <splunk_basic>`                     | Install Splunk using the single-instance architecture.      |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| :ref:`Multi-instance installation <splunk_distributed>`                | Install Splunk using the multi-instance architecture.       |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+

Find more information about how to scale your environments using Splunk Enterprise on the `official documentation <http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.2.1/Deploy/Distributedoverview>`_.

.. warning::
  The Wazuh app for Splunk requires the installation of a **Wazuh manager** and **Wazuh API** in order to work properly. Check out the :ref:`installation guide <installation>` before proceeding with Splunk.

.. note::
  On Linux systems, the Splunk software **requires a 64-bit version** of the operating system.

  Although Splunk can be installed on different OS, the Splunk app is **only compatible with Linux systems**.

.. topic:: Contents

  .. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    splunk-basic
    splunk-distributed
    splunk-app
    splunk-forwarder
    splunk-reverse-proxy

Commit message:

Added more meta descriptions tags to the documentation (#705)
* Added more meta descriptions to some key documentation sections

* Added more meta descriptions, removed author tag

source/installing-splunk/index.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _installation_splunk:

Installing Splunk
=================

.. meta::
  :description: Wazuh can be integrated with Splunk Enterprise to visualize alerts using our app. Learn more about how to install it.

This guide describes the Splunk Enterprise installation process for two different types of distributed architecture, along with the Splunk forwarder and the Wazuh app for Splunk.

- The **single-instance architecture** is recommended for testing and evaluation purposes, or also for small-medium sized environments.
- The **multi-instance architecture** is recommended for larger environments with huge amounts of data (in this case, Wazuh alerts) and users.

+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| Installation type                                                      | Description                                                 |
+========================================================================+=============================================================+
| :ref:`Single-instance installation <splunk_basic>`                     | Install Splunk using the single-instance architecture.      |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| :ref:`Multi-instance installation <splunk_distributed>`                | Install Splunk using the multi-instance architecture.       |
+------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+

Find more information about how to scale your environments using Splunk Enterprise on the `official documentation <http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/7.2.1/Deploy/Distributedoverview>`_.

.. warning::
  The Wazuh app for Splunk requires the installation of a **Wazuh manager** and **Wazuh API** in order to work properly. Check out the :ref:`installation guide <installation>` before proceeding with Splunk.

.. note::
  On Linux systems, the Splunk software **requires a 64-bit version** of the operating system.

  Although Splunk can be installed on different OS, the Splunk app is **only compatible with Linux systems**.

.. topic:: Contents

  .. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    splunk-basic
    splunk-distributed
    splunk-app
    splunk-forwarder
    splunk-reverse-proxy
