source/installing-splunk/splunk-app.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _splunk_app:

Install Wazuh app for Splunk
============================

.. thumbnail:: ../images/splunk-app/splunk-app.png
  :title: Splunk app - Overview > Security events tab
  :align: center
  :width: 90%

Wazuh app for Splunk offers a UI to visualize Wazuh alerts and Wazuh API data. Wazuh helps you to gain deeper security visibility into your infrastructure by monitoring hosts at an operating system and application level.

Installation
------------

1. Download the latest Splunk app for Wazuh:

  .. code-block:: console

    # curl -o SplunkAppForWazuh.tar.gz https://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/splunkapp/v3.7.1_7.2.1.tar.gz

2. Install the Splunk app for Wazuh:

  a. CLI mode:

    .. code-block:: console

      # /opt/splunk/bin/splunk install app SplunkAppForWazuh.tar.gz

    .. code-block:: console

      # /opt/splunk/bin/splunk restart

  b. Web GUI:

    .. code-block:: none

      Apps -> Manage apps -> Install app from file

  The app includes the ``indexes.conf`` file to create Wazuh indexes and the ``inputs.conf`` file to listen to forwarded data on port 9997.

  .. warning::
    If you installed Splunk using the :ref:`distributed architecture <splunk_distributed>`, these two files are already configured on the **search peer** instances, and must be removed from the Wazuh app installation directory::

    # rm -rf /opt/splunk/etc/apps/SplunkAppForWazuh/default/indexes.conf
    # rm -rf /opt/splunk/etc/apps/SplunkAppForWazuh/default/inputs.conf
    # /opt/splunk/bin/splunk restart

3. Open Splunk in your desired browser and click on the Wazuh app icon:

  .. image:: ../images/splunk-app/app-icon.png
    :align: center

4. The app will redirect you to the *Settings* tab, where you need to fill in the form with your **Wazuh API credentials**. Use the URL and port from your Wazuh API server.

  By default, the API port is ``55000``. The default username and password is ``foo:bar``. It's possible to check the connection by pressing the **Check connection** button on each API entry. A successful message appears on the bottom right corner if the app can estabilish a connection.

  .. note::
    You can get more information about how to set up the credentials at :ref:`securing_api`.

  .. thumbnail:: ../images/splunk-app/app-setup.png
    :title: App initial configuration
    :align: center
    :width: 100%

Now that you've finished installing Splunk app for Wazuh, you can install and setup Splunk forwarders on the :ref:`next section <splunk_forwarder>`.

Commit message:

Added documentation to insert API credentials automatically

source/installing-splunk/splunk-app.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _splunk_app:

Install Wazuh app for Splunk
============================

.. thumbnail:: ../images/splunk-app/splunk-app.png
  :title: Splunk app - Overview > Security events tab
  :align: center
  :width: 90%

Wazuh app for Splunk offers a UI to visualize Wazuh alerts and Wazuh API data. Wazuh helps you to gain deeper security visibility into your infrastructure by monitoring hosts at an operating system and application level.

Installation
------------

1. Download the latest Splunk app for Wazuh:

  .. code-block:: console

    # curl -o SplunkAppForWazuh.tar.gz https://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/splunkapp/v3.7.1_7.2.1.tar.gz

2. Install the Splunk app for Wazuh:

  a. CLI mode:

    .. code-block:: console

      # /opt/splunk/bin/splunk install app SplunkAppForWazuh.tar.gz

    .. code-block:: console

      # /opt/splunk/bin/splunk restart

  b. Web GUI:

    .. code-block:: none

      Apps -> Manage apps -> Install app from file

  The app includes the ``indexes.conf`` file to create Wazuh indexes and the ``inputs.conf`` file to listen to forwarded data on port 9997.

  .. warning::
    If you installed Splunk using the :ref:`distributed architecture <splunk_distributed>`, these two files are already configured on the **search peer** instances, and must be removed from the Wazuh app installation directory::

    # rm -rf /opt/splunk/etc/apps/SplunkAppForWazuh/default/indexes.conf
    # rm -rf /opt/splunk/etc/apps/SplunkAppForWazuh/default/inputs.conf
    # /opt/splunk/bin/splunk restart

3. Open Splunk in your desired browser and click on the Wazuh app icon:

  .. image:: ../images/splunk-app/app-icon.png
    :align: center

4. The app will redirect you to the *Settings* tab, where you need to fill in the form with your **Wazuh API credentials**. Use the URL and port from your Wazuh API server.

  By default, the API port is ``55000``. The default username and password is ``foo:bar``. It's possible to check the connection by pressing the **Check connection** button on each API entry. A successful message appears on the bottom right corner if the app can estabilish a connection.

  .. note::
    You can get more information about how to set up the credentials at :ref:`securing_api`.

  .. thumbnail:: ../images/splunk-app/app-setup.png
    :title: App initial configuration
    :align: center
    :width: 100%

5. (Optional) Insert a Wazuh API entry automatically:

  If you want to add the Wazuh API credentials more quickly (for instance, for deployment purposes) you can execute the following command on the same instance where you installed the Wazuh app for Splunk:

  .. code-block:: console

    # curl -X POST "http(s)://<SPLUNK_IP>:<SPLUNK_PORT>/en-US/custom/SplunkAppForWazuh/manager/add_api?url=<WAZUH_API_URL>&portapi=<WAZUH_API_PORT>&userapi=<WAZUH_API_USERNAME>&passapi=<WAZUH_API_PASSWORD>"

  **Note the following:**

  1. ``<SPLUNK_IP>`` is the hostname or IP address of the Splunk instance where the app was installed.
  2. ``<SPLUNK_PORT>`` is the port of the Splunk instance where the app was installed. By default, it's 8000.
  3. ``<WAZUH_API_URL>``, ``<WAZUH_API_PORT>``, ``<WAZUH_API_USERNAME>`` and ``<WAZUH_API_PASSWORD>`` represent the Wazuh API credentials to be stored on the app. Keep in mind that the Wazuh API URL must include ``http://`` or ``https://``, depending on the current configuration.

Now that you've finished installing Splunk app for Wazuh, you can install and setup Splunk forwarders on the :ref:`next section <splunk_forwarder>`.
