.. _wazuh_agent_connect:

Register agents manually
==============================

.. note::
	At the time to add an agent, you must know it's IP address in respect of the manager, in other words, the IP that the manager will see on the arriving packets from the manager. If don't know that IP, or the agent uses DHCP (dynamic IP addressing), use `any` as IP.

1. On the **manager**, run `manage_agents`::

	$ /var/ossec/bin/manage_agents

	****************************************
	* Wazuh v1.2 Agent manager.            *
	* The following options are available: *
	****************************************
	   (A)dd an agent (A).
	   (E)xtract key for an agent (E).
	   (L)ist already added agents (L).
	   (R)emove an agent (R).
	   (Q)uit.
	Choose your action: A,E,L,R or Q:

2. Press `A` and `Enter` to add an agent. You'll be asked for the agent's name (use the agen't hostname or another arbitrary name), its IP and the agent ID (you can left this field empty to auto-assign an ID).

In this example, we'll add an agent with name "Example", dynamic IP (`any`) and automatic ID::

	Choose your action: A,E,L,R or Q: A

	- Adding a new agent (use '\q' to return to the main menu).
	  Please provide the following:
	   * A name for the new agent: Example
	   * The IP Address of the new agent: any
	   * An ID for the new agent[001]:
	Agent information:
	   ID:001
	   Name:Example
	   IP Address:any

	Confirm adding it?(y/n): y
	Agent added with ID 001.

3. Extract the new agent's key. You will need it for the agent::

	Choose your action: A,E,L,R or Q: E

	Available agents:
	   ID: 001, Name: Example, IP: any
	Provide the ID of the agent to extract the key (or '\q' to quit): 001

	Agent key information for '001' is:
	MDAxIDE4NWVlNjE1Y2YzYiBhbnkgMGNmMDFiYTM3NmMxY2JjNjU0NDAwYmFhZDY1ZWU1YjcyMGI2NDY3ODhkNGQzMjM5ZTdlNGVmNzQzMGFjMDA4Nw==

4. Exit from `manage_agents` by pressing `Q` and `Enter`.

5. Now on the **agent** run `manage_agents`::

	$ /var/ossec/bin/manage_agents

	****************************************
	* Wazuh v1.2 Agent manager.            *
	* The following options are available: *
	****************************************
	   (I)mport key from the server (I).
	   (Q)uit.
	Choose your action: I or Q:

6. Press `I` and `Enter` to import a key. Then paste the key that you extracted at the manager::

	Choose your action: I or Q: I

	* Provide the Key generated by the server.
	* The best approach is to cut and paste it.
	*** OBS: Do not include spaces or new lines.

	Paste it here (or '\q' to quit): MDAxIDE4NWVlNjE1Y2YzYiBhbnkgMGNmMDFiYTM3NmMxY2JjNjU0NDAwYmFhZDY1ZWU1YjcyMGI2NDY3ODhkNGQzMjM5ZTdlNGVmNzQzMGFjMDA4Nw=

	Agent information:
	   ID:013
	   Name:Example
	   IP Address:any

	Confirm adding it?(y/n): y
	Added.

7. Press `Q` and `Enter` to exit from `manage_agents`.

8. Restart the agent. You'll do it depending on your OS init system:

	a) For Systemd::

		systemctl restart wazuh

	b) For SysV Init::

		service wazuh restart
