source/installation-guide/wazuh-indexer/installation-assistant.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
   :description: Learn how to install the Wazuh indexer using the Wazuh installation assistant. The Wazuh indexer is a highly scalable full-text search engine and offers advanced security, alerting, index management, deep performance analysis, and several other features.

Installing the Wazuh indexer using the assistant
================================================

Install and configure the Wazuh indexer as a single-node or multi-node cluster with the aid of the Wazuh installation assistant. The Wazuh indexer is a highly scalable full-text search engine. It offers advanced security, alerting, index management, deep performance analysis, and several other features.


Wazuh indexer cluster installation
----------------------------------

The installation process is divided into three stages. 

#. Initial configuration

#. Wazuh indexer nodes installation

#. Cluster initialization

.. note:: You need root user privileges to run all the commands described below.

1. Initial configuration
------------------------

Indicate your deployment configuration, create the SSL certificates to encrypt communications between the Wazuh components, and generate random passwords to secure your installation. 

#. Download the Wazuh installation assistant and the configuration file. 

      .. code-block:: console

          # curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/|WAZUH_CURRENT_MINOR|/wazuh-install.sh
          # curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/|WAZUH_CURRENT_MINOR|/config.yml
       
#. Edit ``./config.yml`` and replace the node names and IP values with the corresponding names and IP addresses. You need to do this for all Wazuh server, Wazuh indexer, and Wazuh dashboard nodes. Add as many node fields as needed.

      .. code-block:: yaml

        nodes:
          # Wazuh indexer nodes
          indexer:
            - name: node-1
              ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"
            #- name: node-2
            #  ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"
            #- name: node-3
            #  ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"

          # Wazuh server nodes
          # If there is more than one Wazuh server
          # node, each one must have a node_type
          server:
            - name: wazuh-1
              ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
            #  node_type: master
            #- name: wazuh-2
            #  ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
            #  node_type: worker
            #- name: wazuh-3
            #  ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
            #  node_type: worker

          # Wazuh dashboard nodes
          dashboard:
            - name: dashboard
              ip: "<dashboard-node-ip>"


#. Run the assistant with the option ``--generate-config-files`` to generate the  Wazuh cluster key, certificates, and passwords necessary for installation. You can find these files in ``./wazuh-install-files.tar``.

      .. code-block:: console

        # bash wazuh-install.sh --generate-config-files


#. Copy the ``wazuh-install-files.tar`` file to all the servers of the distributed deployment, including the Wazuh server, the Wazuh indexer, and the Wazuh dashboard nodes. This can be done by using the ``scp`` utility.


2. Wazuh indexer nodes installation
------------------------------------

Install and configure the Wazuh indexer nodes. 


#. Download the Wazuh installation assistant.

      .. code-block:: console

        # curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/|WAZUH_CURRENT_MINOR|/wazuh-install.sh


#. Run the assistant with the option ``--wazuh-indexer`` and the node name to install and configure the Wazuh indexer. The node name must be the same one used in ``config.yml`` for the initial configuration, for example, ``node-1``.
      
      .. note:: Make sure that a copy of ``wazuh-install-files.tar``, created during the initial configuration step, is placed in your working directory.

      .. code-block:: console

        # bash wazuh-install.sh --wazuh-indexer node-1 


Repeat this stage of the installation process for every Wazuh indexer node in your cluster. Then proceed with initializing your single-node or multi-node cluster in the next stage.


3. Cluster initialization 
-------------------------

The final stage of installing the Wazuh indexer single-node or multi-node cluster consists of running the security admin script. 

#. Run the Wazuh installation assistant with option ``--start-cluster`` on any Wazuh indexer node to load the new certificates information and start the cluster. 

   .. code-block:: console
 
     # bash wazuh-install.sh --start-cluster
 
   .. note:: You only have to initialize the cluster `once`, there is no need to run this command on every node. 

Testing the cluster installation
--------------------------------

#. Run the following command to get the *admin* password:

   .. code-block:: console

      # tar -axf wazuh-install-files.tar wazuh-install-files/wazuh-passwords.txt -O | grep -P "\'admin\'" -A 1

#. Run the following command to confirm that the installation is successful. Replace ``<ADMIN_PASSWORD>`` with the password gotten from the output of the previous command. Replace ``<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP>`` with the configured Wazuh indexer IP address:

   .. code-block:: console

      # curl -k -u admin:<ADMIN_PASSWORD> https://<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP>:9200

   .. code-block:: none
      :class: output

      {
        "name" : "node-1",
        "cluster_name" : "wazuh-cluster",
        "cluster_uuid" : "095jEW-oRJSFKLz5wmo5PA",
        "version" : {
          "number" : "7.10.2",
          "build_type" : "rpm",
          "build_hash" : "db90a415ff2fd428b4f7b3f800a51dc229287cb4",
          "build_date" : "2023-06-03T06:24:25.112415503Z",
          "build_snapshot" : false,
          "lucene_version" : "9.6.0",
          "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "7.10.0",
          "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "7.0.0"
        },
        "tagline" : "The OpenSearch Project: https://opensearch.org/"
      }

#. Replace ``<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP>`` and ``<ADMIN_PASSWORD>``, and run the following command to check if the cluster is working correctly:

   .. code-block:: console

      # curl -k -u admin:<ADMIN_PASSWORD> https://<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP>:9200/_cat/nodes?v

Next steps
----------

The Wazuh indexer is now successfully installed, and you can proceed with installing the Wazuh server. To perform this action, see the :doc:`Installing the Wazuh server using the installation assistant <../wazuh-server/installation-assistant>` section.

Commit message:

Change the current indexer username and password details to the Keystore

source/installation-guide/wazuh-indexer/installation-assistant.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2015, Wazuh, Inc.

.. meta::
   :description: Learn how to install the Wazuh indexer using the Wazuh installation assistant. The Wazuh indexer is a highly scalable full-text search engine and offers advanced security, alerting, index management, deep performance analysis, and several other features.

Installing the Wazuh indexer using the assistant
================================================

Install and configure the Wazuh indexer as a single-node or multi-node cluster with the aid of the Wazuh installation assistant. The Wazuh indexer is a highly scalable full-text search engine. It offers advanced security, alerting, index management, deep performance analysis, and several other features.


Wazuh indexer cluster installation
----------------------------------

The installation process is divided into three stages. 

#. Initial configuration

#. Wazuh indexer nodes installation

#. Cluster initialization

.. note:: You need root user privileges to run all the commands described below.

1. Initial configuration
------------------------

Indicate your deployment configuration, create the SSL certificates to encrypt communications between the Wazuh components, and generate random passwords to secure your installation. 

#. Download the Wazuh installation assistant and the configuration file. 

      .. code-block:: console

          # curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/|WAZUH_CURRENT_MINOR|/wazuh-install.sh
          # curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/|WAZUH_CURRENT_MINOR|/config.yml
       
#. Edit ``./config.yml`` and replace the node names and IP values with the corresponding names and IP addresses. You need to do this for all Wazuh server, Wazuh indexer, and Wazuh dashboard nodes. Add as many node fields as needed.

      .. code-block:: yaml

        nodes:
          # Wazuh indexer nodes
          indexer:
            - name: node-1
              ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"
            #- name: node-2
            #  ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"
            #- name: node-3
            #  ip: "<indexer-node-ip>"

          # Wazuh server nodes
          # If there is more than one Wazuh server
          # node, each one must have a node_type
          server:
            - name: wazuh-1
              ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
            #  node_type: master
            #- name: wazuh-2
            #  ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
            #  node_type: worker
            #- name: wazuh-3
            #  ip: "<wazuh-manager-ip>"
            #  node_type: worker

          # Wazuh dashboard nodes
          dashboard:
            - name: dashboard
              ip: "<dashboard-node-ip>"


#. Run the assistant with the option ``--generate-config-files`` to generate the  Wazuh cluster key, certificates, and passwords necessary for installation. You can find these files in ``./wazuh-install-files.tar``.

      .. code-block:: console

        # bash wazuh-install.sh --generate-config-files


#. Copy the ``wazuh-install-files.tar`` file to all the servers of the distributed deployment, including the Wazuh server, the Wazuh indexer, and the Wazuh dashboard nodes. This can be done by using the ``scp`` utility.


2. Wazuh indexer nodes installation
------------------------------------

Install and configure the Wazuh indexer nodes. 


#. Download the Wazuh installation assistant.

      .. code-block:: console

        # curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/|WAZUH_CURRENT_MINOR|/wazuh-install.sh


#. Run the assistant with the option ``--wazuh-indexer`` and the node name to install and configure the Wazuh indexer. The node name must be the same one used in ``config.yml`` for the initial configuration, for example, ``node-1``.
      
      .. note:: Make sure that a copy of ``wazuh-install-files.tar``, created during the initial configuration step, is placed in your working directory.

      .. code-block:: console

        # bash wazuh-install.sh --wazuh-indexer node-1 


Repeat this stage of the installation process for every Wazuh indexer node in your cluster. Then proceed with initializing your single-node or multi-node cluster in the next stage.


3. Cluster initialization 
-------------------------

The final stage of installing the Wazuh indexer single-node or multi-node cluster consists of running the security admin script. 

#. Run the Wazuh installation assistant with option ``--start-cluster`` on any Wazuh indexer node to load the new certificates information and start the cluster. 

   .. code-block:: console
 
     # bash wazuh-install.sh --start-cluster
 
   .. note:: You only have to initialize the cluster `once`, there is no need to run this command on every node. 

Testing the cluster installation
--------------------------------

#. Replace ``<INDEXER_USERNAME>``, ``<INDEXER_PASSWORD>`` and ``<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADDRESS>`` with the Wazuh indexer username and password that you set using the Keystore tool commands:

   .. code-block:: console

         # /var/ossec/bin/wazuh-keystore -f indexer -k username -v <INDEXER_USERNAME>
         # /var/ossec/bin/wazuh-keystore -f indexer -k password -v <INDEXER_PASSWORD>
         
  And run the following commands to confirm that the installation is successful.

   .. code-block:: console

      # curl -k -u <INDEXER_USERNAME>:<INDEXER_PASSWORD> https://<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP_ADRESS>:9200

   .. code-block:: none
      :class: output

      {
        "name" : "node-1",
        "cluster_name" : "wazuh-cluster",
        "cluster_uuid" : "095jEW-oRJSFKLz5wmo5PA",
        "version" : {
          "number" : "7.10.2",
          "build_type" : "rpm",
          "build_hash" : "db90a415ff2fd428b4f7b3f800a51dc229287cb4",
          "build_date" : "2023-06-03T06:24:25.112415503Z",
          "build_snapshot" : false,
          "lucene_version" : "9.6.0",
          "minimum_wire_compatibility_version" : "7.10.0",
          "minimum_index_compatibility_version" : "7.0.0"
        },
        "tagline" : "The OpenSearch Project: https://opensearch.org/"
      }

#. Replace ``<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP>`` and ``<ADMIN_PASSWORD>``, and run the following command to check if the cluster is working correctly:

   .. code-block:: console

      # curl -k -u admin:<ADMIN_PASSWORD> https://<WAZUH_INDEXER_IP>:9200/_cat/nodes?v

Next steps
----------

The Wazuh indexer is now successfully installed, and you can proceed with installing the Wazuh server. To perform this action, see the :doc:`Installing the Wazuh server using the installation assistant <../wazuh-server/installation-assistant>` section.
