source/installation-guide/installing-wazuh-agent/wazuh_agent_rpm.rst, before:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _wazuh_agent_rpm:

Install Wazuh agent with RPM packages
=====================================

The RPM package is suitable for installation on Red Hat, CentOS and other RPM-based systems.

.. note:: Many of the commands described below need to be executed with root user privileges.

Adding the Wazuh repository
---------------------------

The first step to installing the Wazuh agent is to add the Wazuh repository to your server.  Alternatively, if you want to download the wazuh-agent package directly, or check the compatible versions, you can do it from :ref:`here <packages>`.

Set up the repository by running the following commands according to your distribution:

CentOS 6/RHEL 6, CentOS 7/RHEL 7, Fedora 22 or greater and Amazon Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

  .. code-block:: console

    # cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
    [wazuh_repo]
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
    enabled=1
    name=Wazuh repository
    baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/
    protect=1
    EOF


CentOS 5/RHEL 5
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

  .. code-block:: console

    # cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
    [wazuh_repo]
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=http://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH-5
    enabled=1
    name=Wazuh repository
    baseurl=http://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/5/$basearch/
    protect=1
    EOF

SUSE 12
^^^^^^^

  .. code-block:: console

    # rpm --import https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
    # cat > /etc/zypp/repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
    [wazuh_repo]
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
    enabled=1
    name=Wazuh repository
    baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/
    protect=1
    EOF

SUSE 11
^^^^^^^

  .. code-block:: console

    # rpm --import https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH-5
    # cat > /etc/zypp/repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
    [wazuh_repo]
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=http://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH-5
    enabled=1
    name=Wazuh repository
    baseurl=http://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/5/$basearch/
    protect=1
    EOF


Installing Wazuh agent
----------------------

On your terminal, install the Wazuh agent as follows:

* ``yum`` package manager:

  .. code-block:: console

    # yum install wazuh-agent

* ``zypper`` package manager:

  .. code-block:: console

    # zypper install wazuh-agent

.. note:: Now that the agent is installed, the next step is to register and configure it to communicate with the manager. For more information about this process, please visit the :doc:`user manual<../../user-manual/registering/index>`.

Commit message:

Added optional step to disable updates on Wazuh agent installation guides

source/installation-guide/installing-wazuh-agent/wazuh_agent_rpm.rst, after:

.. Copyright (C) 2018 Wazuh, Inc.

.. _wazuh_agent_rpm:

Install Wazuh agent with RPM packages
=====================================

The RPM package is suitable for installation on Red Hat, CentOS and other RPM-based systems.

.. note:: Many of the commands described below need to be executed with root user privileges.

Adding the Wazuh repository
---------------------------

The first step to installing the Wazuh agent is to add the Wazuh repository to your server.  Alternatively, if you want to download the wazuh-agent package directly, or check the compatible versions, you can do it from :ref:`here <packages>`.

Set up the repository by running the following commands according to your distribution:

CentOS 6/RHEL 6, CentOS 7/RHEL 7, Fedora 22 or greater and Amazon Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

  .. code-block:: console

    # cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
    [wazuh_repo]
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
    enabled=1
    name=Wazuh repository
    baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/
    protect=1
    EOF


CentOS 5/RHEL 5
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

  .. code-block:: console

    # cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
    [wazuh_repo]
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=http://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH-5
    enabled=1
    name=Wazuh repository
    baseurl=http://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/5/$basearch/
    protect=1
    EOF

SUSE 12
^^^^^^^

  .. code-block:: console

    # rpm --import https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
    # cat > /etc/zypp/repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
    [wazuh_repo]
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH
    enabled=1
    name=Wazuh repository
    baseurl=https://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/
    protect=1
    EOF

SUSE 11
^^^^^^^

  .. code-block:: console

    # rpm --import https://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH-5
    # cat > /etc/zypp/repos.d/wazuh.repo <<\EOF
    [wazuh_repo]
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=http://packages.wazuh.com/key/GPG-KEY-WAZUH-5
    enabled=1
    name=Wazuh repository
    baseurl=http://packages.wazuh.com/3.x/yum/5/$basearch/
    protect=1
    EOF


Installing Wazuh agent
----------------------

1. On your terminal, install the Wazuh agent as follows:

  * Using the ``yum`` package manager:

    .. code-block:: console

      # yum install wazuh-agent

  * Using the ``zypper`` package manager:

    .. code-block:: console

      # zypper install wazuh-agent

2. (Optional) Disable the Wazuh repository:

  It is recommended that the Wazuh repository be disabled in order to prevent accidental upgrades. To do this, use the following command:

  * Using the ``yum`` package manager:

    .. code-block:: console

      # sed -i "s/^enabled=1/enabled=0/" /etc/yum.repos.d/wazuh.repo


  * Using the ``zypper`` package manager:

    .. code-block:: console

      # sed -i "s/^enabled=1/enabled=0/" /etc/zypp/repos.d/wazuh.repo

.. note:: Now that the agent is installed, the next step is to register and configure it to communicate with the manager. For more information about this process, please visit the :doc:`user manual<../../user-manual/registering/index>`.
