source/user-manual/agents/registering-agents/index.rst, before:

.. _connecting_agents:

Registering agents
==============================

Once we have our agents installed, it is necessary to connect them to the manager. The communication between an agent and the manager is performed via the OSSEC message protocol, which encrypts messages using a pre-shared key. The process of provisioning an agent authentication key on the manager and distributing it to an agent is called registration.

**client.keys**

The manager uses the file ``/var/ossec/etc/client.keys`` to store the registration record of each agent, which includes ID, name, IP, and key. Example::

    001 Server1 any e20e0394dca71bacdea57d4ca25d203f836eca12eeca1ec150c2e5f4309a653a
    002 ServerProd 192.246.247.247 b0c5548beda537daddb4da698424d0856c3d4e760eaced803d58c07ad1a95f4c
    003 DBServer 192.168.0.1/24 8ec4843da9e61647d1ec3facab542acc26bd0e08ffc010086bb3a6fc22f6f65b

The agents also have the file ``/var/ossec/etc/client.keys`` containing only their own registration record. Example for ``Server1`` agent::

    001 Server1 any e20e0394dca71bacdea57d4ca25d203f836eca12eeca1ec150c2e5f4309a653a

**Basic data for registering an agent**

In order to register an agent, it is necessary to provide the name and the IP of the agent.

There are several ways to set the agent IP:

 - **Any IP**: Allow the agent to connect from any IP address. Example: ``Server1`` has ``any`` IP.
 - **Fixed IP**: Allow the agent to connect only from the specified IP. Example: ``ServerProd`` has the IP ``192.246.247.247``.
 - **Range IP**: Allow the agent to connect from the specified range of IPs. Example: ``DBServer`` has the IP range ``192.168.0.1/24``.

Some registration methods automatically detect the IP of the agent during the registration process.

**Registration methods**

Here are 3 ways to register an agent:

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Type          | Method                                                          | Description                                                            |
+===============+=================================================================+========================================================================+
| Manually      | :doc:`Using the command line <register-agent-manual>`           | Register an agent manually using manage_agents binary.                 |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Automatically | :doc:`Using the registration service <register-agent-authd>`    | Register an agent automatically using ossec-authd binary.              |
+               +-----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|               | :doc:`Using the RESTful API <register-agent-api>`               | Register an agent by scripting (bash, python, powershell) and the API. |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. toctree::
    :hidden:
    :maxdepth: 1

    register-agent-manual
    register-agent-authd
    register-agent-api

Commit message:

Added deprecated message plus a proper link to current documentation (#460)

source/user-manual/agents/registering-agents/index.rst, after:

.. _connecting_agents:

.. warning::

    You are looking at documentation for an older release. Not what you want? See the `current release documentation <https://documentation.wazuh.com/current/user-manual/registering/index.html>`_.

Registering agents
==============================

Once we have our agents installed, it is necessary to connect them to the manager. The communication between an agent and the manager is performed via the OSSEC message protocol, which encrypts messages using a pre-shared key. The process of provisioning an agent authentication key on the manager and distributing it to an agent is called registration.

**client.keys**

The manager uses the file ``/var/ossec/etc/client.keys`` to store the registration record of each agent, which includes ID, name, IP, and key. Example::

    001 Server1 any e20e0394dca71bacdea57d4ca25d203f836eca12eeca1ec150c2e5f4309a653a
    002 ServerProd 192.246.247.247 b0c5548beda537daddb4da698424d0856c3d4e760eaced803d58c07ad1a95f4c
    003 DBServer 192.168.0.1/24 8ec4843da9e61647d1ec3facab542acc26bd0e08ffc010086bb3a6fc22f6f65b

The agents also have the file ``/var/ossec/etc/client.keys`` containing only their own registration record. Example for ``Server1`` agent::

    001 Server1 any e20e0394dca71bacdea57d4ca25d203f836eca12eeca1ec150c2e5f4309a653a

**Basic data for registering an agent**

In order to register an agent, it is necessary to provide the name and the IP of the agent.

There are several ways to set the agent IP:

 - **Any IP**: Allow the agent to connect from any IP address. Example: ``Server1`` has ``any`` IP.
 - **Fixed IP**: Allow the agent to connect only from the specified IP. Example: ``ServerProd`` has the IP ``192.246.247.247``.
 - **Range IP**: Allow the agent to connect from the specified range of IPs. Example: ``DBServer`` has the IP range ``192.168.0.1/24``.

Some registration methods automatically detect the IP of the agent during the registration process.

**Registration methods**

Here are 3 ways to register an agent:

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Type          | Method                                                          | Description                                                            |
+===============+=================================================================+========================================================================+
| Manually      | :doc:`Using the command line <register-agent-manual>`           | Register an agent manually using manage_agents binary.                 |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Automatically | :doc:`Using the registration service <register-agent-authd>`    | Register an agent automatically using ossec-authd binary.              |
+               +-----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|               | :doc:`Using the RESTful API <register-agent-api>`               | Register an agent by scripting (bash, python, powershell) and the API. |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. toctree::
    :hidden:
    :maxdepth: 1

    register-agent-manual
    register-agent-authd
    register-agent-api
