source/development/packaging/generate-indexer-package.rst, before:

Wazuh Indexer packages generation guide
=======================================

The packages' generation process consists on 2 steps:

-  **Build**: compiles the Java application and bundles it into a
   package.
-  **Assembly**: uses the package from the previous step and inflates it
   with plugins and configuration files, ready for production
   deployment.

We usually generate the packages using GitHub Actions, however, the
process is designed to be independent enough for maximum portability.
GitHub Actions provides infrastructure, while the building process is
self-contained in the application code.

The automated package build infrastructure is built around GitHub Action
workflows, which can be run locally using
`Act <https://github.com/nektos/act>`__.

Instructions for Docker and local build environments can be found below:

Docker build environment:
-------------------------

Minimal Package Build stage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

DEB/RPM:
^^^^^^^^

Using the `Docker environment <../docker>`__:

.. code:: console

   docker exec -it wi-build_$(<VERSION) bash packaging_scripts/build.sh -a {x64|arm64} -d {rpm|deb|tar}

Full Package Assemble stage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

DEB:
^^^^

Pre-requisites:

-  Current directory: ``wazuh-indexer/``
-  Existing deb package in ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/dist/deb``, as a
   result of the *Build* stage.
-  Using the `Docker environment <../docker>`__:

.. code:: console

   docker exec -it wi-assemble_$(<VERSION) bash packaging_scripts/assemble.sh -a x64 -d deb

RPM
^^^

Pre-requisites:

-  Current directory: ``wazuh-indexer/``
-  Existing rpm package in ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/dist/rpm``, as a
   result of the *Build* stage.
-  Using the `Docker environment <../docker>`__:

.. code:: console

   docker exec -it wi-assemble_$(<VERSION) bash packaging_scripts/assemble.sh -a x64 -d rpm

Local
-----

.. _minimal-package-build-stage-1:

Minimal Package Build stage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For local package generation, use the ``build.sh`` script. Take a look
at the ``build.yml`` workflow file for an example of usage.

.. code:: bash

   bash packaging_scripts/build.sh -a x64 -d tar -n $(bash packaging_scripts/baptizer.sh -a x64 -d tar -m)

The generated package is sent to the ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts`` folder.

.. _full-package-assemble-stage-1:

Full Package Assemble stage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Note:** set the environment variable ``TEST=true`` to assemble a
package with a minimal set of plugins, speeding up the assembly process.

TAR:
~~~~

The assembly process for tarballs consists on:

#. Extraction of the minimal package
#. Bundling of plugins
#. Addition of Wazuh configuration files and tooling
#. Compression

.. code:: console

   bash packaging_scripts/assemble.sh -a x64 -d tar -r 1

.. _deb-1:

DEB:
~~~~

For DEB packages, the ``assemble.sh`` script will perform the following
operations:

#. Extract the deb package using ``ar`` and ``tar`` tools.

      By default, ``ar`` and ``tar`` tools expect the package to be in
      ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/tmp/deb``. The script takes care of
      creating the required folder structure, copying also the min
      package and the Makefile.

   Current folder loadout at this stage:

   ::

      artifacts/
      |-- dist
      |   |-- wazuh-indexer-min_4.9.0_amd64.deb
      `-- tmp
          `-- deb
              |-- Makefile
              |-- data.tar.gz
              |-- debmake_install.sh
              |-- etc
              |-- usr
              |-- var
              `-- wazuh-indexer-min_4.9.0_amd64.deb

   ``usr``, ``etc`` and ``var`` folders contain ``wazuh-indexer`` files,
   extracted from ``wazuh-indexer-min-*.deb``. ``Makefile`` and the
   ``debmake_install`` are copied over from
   ``wazuh-indexer/distribution/packages/src/deb``. The
   ``wazuh-indexer-performance-analyzer.service`` file is also copied
   from the same folder. It is a dependency of the SPEC file.

#. Install the plugins using the ``opensearch-plugin`` CLI tool.

#. Set up configuration files.

      Included in ``min-package``. Default files are overwritten.

#. Bundle a DEB file with ``debmake`` and the ``Makefile``.

      ``debmake`` and other dependencies can be installed using the
      ``provision.sh`` script. The script is invoked by the GitHub
      Workflow.

   Current folder loadout at this stage:

   ::

      artifacts/
      |-- artifact_name.txt
      |-- dist
      |   |-- wazuh-indexer-min_4.9.0_amd64.deb
      |   `-- wazuh-indexer_4.9.0_amd64.deb
      `-- tmp
          `-- deb
              |-- Makefile
              |-- data.tar.gz
              |-- debmake_install.sh
              |-- etc
              |-- usr
              |-- var
              |-- wazuh-indexer-min_4.9.0_amd64.deb
              `-- debian/
                  | -- control
                  | -- copyright
                  | -- rules
                  | -- preinst
                  | -- prerm
                  | -- postinst

.. _rpm-1:

RPM:
~~~~

The ``assemble.sh`` script will use the output from the ``build.sh``
script and use it as a base to bundle together a final package
containing the plugins, the production configuration and the service
files.

The script will:

#. Extract the RPM package using ``rpm2cpio`` and ``cpio`` tools.

      By default, ``rpm2cpio`` and ``cpio`` tools expect the package to
      be in ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/tmp/rpm``.The script takes care of
      creating the required folder structure, copying also the min
      package and the SPEC file.

   Current folder loadout at this stage:

   ::

      /rpm/$ARCH
          /etc
          /usr
          /var
          wazuh-indexer-min-*.rpm
          wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec

   ``usr``, ``etc`` and ``var`` folders contain ``wazuh-indexer`` files,
   extracted from ``wazuh-indexer-min-*.rpm``.
   ``wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec`` is copied over from
   ``wazuh-indexer/distribution/packages/src/rpm/wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec``.
   The ``wazuh-indexer-performance-analyzer.service`` file is also
   copied from the same folder. It is a dependency of the SPEC file.

#. Install the plugins using the ``opensearch-plugin`` CLI tool.

#. Set up configuration files.

      Included in ``min-package``. Default files are overwritten.

#. Bundle an RPM file with ``rpmbuild`` and the SPEC file
   ``wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec``.

      ``rpmbuild`` is part of the ``rpm`` OS package.

   ..

      ``rpmbuild`` is invoked from ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/tmp/rpm``.
      It creates the {BUILD,RPMS,SOURCES,SRPMS,SPECS,TMP} folders and
      applies the rules in the SPEC file. If successful, ``rpmbuild``
      will generate the package in the ``RPMS/`` folder. The script will
      copy it to ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/dist`` and clean: remove the
      ``tmp\`` folder and its contents.

   Current folder loadout at this stage:

   ::

      /rpm/$ARCH
          /{BUILD,RPMS,SOURCES,SRPMS,SPECS,TMP}
          /etc
          /usr
          /var
          wazuh-indexer-min-*.rpm
          wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec

``build.sh`` and ``assemble.sh`` reference
------------------------------------------

The packages' generation process is guided through bash scripts. Below
is a reference of their inputs, outputs and code:

::

   scripts:
     - file: build.sh
       description: |
         generates a distribution package by running the appropiate Gradle task 
         depending on the parameters.
       inputs:
         architecture: [x64, arm64] # Note: we only build x86_64 packages
         distribution: [tar, deb, rpm]
         name: the name of the package to be generated.
       outputs:
         package: minimal wazuh-indexer package for the required distribution.
     
     - file: assemble.sh
       description: |
         bundles the wazuh-indexer package generated in by build.sh with plugins, 
         configuration files and demo certificates (certificates yet to come).
       inputs:
         architecture: [x64, arm64] # Note: we only build x86_64 packages
         distribution: [tar, deb, rpm]
         revision: revision number. 0 by default.
       outputs:
         package: wazuh-indexer package.
     
     - file: provision.sh
       description: Provision script for the assembly of DEB packages.
     
     - file: baptizer.sh
       description: generate the wazuh-indexer package name depending on the parameters.
       inputs:
         architecture: [x64, arm64] # Note: we only build x86_64 packages
         distribution: [tar, deb, rpm]
         revision: revision number. 0 by default.
         is_release: if set, uses release naming convention.
         is_min: if set, the package name will start by `wazuh-indexer-min`. Used on the build stage.
       outputs:
         package: the name of the wazuh-indexer package.

Commit message:

Change relative references to Indexer repo

source/development/packaging/generate-indexer-package.rst, after:

Wazuh Indexer packages generation guide
=======================================

General Packaging pre-requisistes:
==================================

-  Clone the ``wazuh-indexer`` repository and switch to the ``4.9.0``
   branch:

.. code:: console

   git clone https://www.github.com/wazuh/wazuh-indexer
   git checkout 4.9.0

The packages' generation process is launched from two scripts, which are
found within the ``packaging_scripts`` folder of the repository:

-  **build.sh**: compiles the Java application and bundles it into a
   package.
-  **assemble.sh**: uses the package from the previous step and inflates
   it with plugins and configuration files, ready for production
   deployment.

Official packages are built through a GitHub Actions pipeline, however,
the process is designed to be independent enough for maximum
portability. The building process is self-contained in the application
code.

The GitHub Actions pipeline can be tested locally with
`Act <https://github.com/nektos/act>`__.

Docker build environment:
-------------------------

Minimal Package Build stage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

DEB/RPM:
^^^^^^^^

Using the `Docker
environment <https://www.github.com/wazuh/wazuh-indexer/tree/4.9.0/docker>`__:

.. code:: console

   docker exec -it wi-build_$(<VERSION) bash packaging_scripts/build.sh -a {x64|arm64} -d {rpm|deb|tar}

Full Package Assemble stage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

DEB:
^^^^

Pre-requisites:

-  Current directory: ``wazuh-indexer/``
-  Existing deb package in ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/dist/deb``, as a
   result of the *Build* stage.
-  Using the `Docker
   environment <https://www.github.com/wazuh/wazuh-indexer/tree/4.9.0/docker>`__:

.. code:: console

   docker exec -it wi-assemble_$(<VERSION) bash packaging_scripts/assemble.sh -a x64 -d deb

RPM
^^^

Pre-requisites:

-  Current directory: ``wazuh-indexer/``
-  Existing rpm package in ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/dist/rpm``, as a
   result of the *Build* stage.
-  Using the `Docker
   environment <https://www.github.com/wazuh/wazuh-indexer/tree/4.9.0/docker>`__:

.. code:: console

   docker exec -it wi-assemble_$(<VERSION) bash packaging_scripts/assemble.sh -a x64 -d rpm

Local
-----

.. _minimal-package-build-stage-1:

Minimal Package Build stage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For local package generation, use the ``build.sh`` script. Take a look
at the ``build.yml`` workflow file for an example of usage.

.. code:: bash

   bash packaging_scripts/build.sh -a x64 -d tar -n $(bash packaging_scripts/baptizer.sh -a x64 -d tar -m)

The generated package is sent to the ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts`` folder.

.. _full-package-assemble-stage-1:

Full Package Assemble stage:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Note:** set the environment variable ``TEST=true`` to assemble a
package with a minimal set of plugins, speeding up the assembly process.

TAR:
~~~~

The assembly process for tarballs consists on:

#. Extraction of the minimal package
#. Bundling of plugins
#. Addition of Wazuh configuration files and tooling
#. Compression

.. code:: console

   bash packaging_scripts/assemble.sh -a x64 -d tar -r 1

.. _deb-1:

DEB:
~~~~

For DEB packages, the ``assemble.sh`` script will perform the following
operations:

#. Extract the deb package using ``ar`` and ``tar`` tools.

      By default, ``ar`` and ``tar`` tools expect the package to be in
      ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/tmp/deb``. The script takes care of
      creating the required folder structure, copying also the min
      package and the Makefile.

   Current folder loadout at this stage:

   ::

      artifacts/
      |-- dist
      |   |-- wazuh-indexer-min_4.9.0_amd64.deb
      `-- tmp
          `-- deb
              |-- Makefile
              |-- data.tar.gz
              |-- debmake_install.sh
              |-- etc
              |-- usr
              |-- var
              `-- wazuh-indexer-min_4.9.0_amd64.deb

   ``usr``, ``etc`` and ``var`` folders contain ``wazuh-indexer`` files,
   extracted from ``wazuh-indexer-min-*.deb``. ``Makefile`` and the
   ``debmake_install`` are copied over from
   ``wazuh-indexer/distribution/packages/src/deb``. The
   ``wazuh-indexer-performance-analyzer.service`` file is also copied
   from the same folder. It is a dependency of the SPEC file.

#. Install the plugins using the ``opensearch-plugin`` CLI tool.

#. Set up configuration files.

      Included in ``min-package``. Default files are overwritten.

#. Bundle a DEB file with ``debmake`` and the ``Makefile``.

      ``debmake`` and other dependencies can be installed using the
      ``provision.sh`` script. The script is invoked by the GitHub
      Workflow.

   Current folder loadout at this stage:

   ::

      artifacts/
      |-- artifact_name.txt
      |-- dist
      |   |-- wazuh-indexer-min_4.9.0_amd64.deb
      |   `-- wazuh-indexer_4.9.0_amd64.deb
      `-- tmp
          `-- deb
              |-- Makefile
              |-- data.tar.gz
              |-- debmake_install.sh
              |-- etc
              |-- usr
              |-- var
              |-- wazuh-indexer-min_4.9.0_amd64.deb
              `-- debian/
                  | -- control
                  | -- copyright
                  | -- rules
                  | -- preinst
                  | -- prerm
                  | -- postinst

.. _rpm-1:

RPM:
~~~~

The ``assemble.sh`` script will use the output from the ``build.sh``
script and use it as a base to bundle together a final package
containing the plugins, the production configuration and the service
files.

The script will:

#. Extract the RPM package using ``rpm2cpio`` and ``cpio`` tools.

      By default, ``rpm2cpio`` and ``cpio`` tools expect the package to
      be in ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/tmp/rpm``.The script takes care of
      creating the required folder structure, copying also the min
      package and the SPEC file.

   Current folder loadout at this stage:

   ::

      /rpm/$ARCH
          /etc
          /usr
          /var
          wazuh-indexer-min-*.rpm
          wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec

   ``usr``, ``etc`` and ``var`` folders contain ``wazuh-indexer`` files,
   extracted from ``wazuh-indexer-min-*.rpm``.
   ``wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec`` is copied over from
   ``wazuh-indexer/distribution/packages/src/rpm/wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec``.
   The ``wazuh-indexer-performance-analyzer.service`` file is also
   copied from the same folder. It is a dependency of the SPEC file.

#. Install the plugins using the ``opensearch-plugin`` CLI tool.

#. Set up configuration files.

      Included in ``min-package``. Default files are overwritten.

#. Bundle an RPM file with ``rpmbuild`` and the SPEC file
   ``wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec``.

      ``rpmbuild`` is part of the ``rpm`` OS package.

   ..

      ``rpmbuild`` is invoked from ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/tmp/rpm``.
      It creates the {BUILD,RPMS,SOURCES,SRPMS,SPECS,TMP} folders and
      applies the rules in the SPEC file. If successful, ``rpmbuild``
      will generate the package in the ``RPMS/`` folder. The script will
      copy it to ``wazuh-indexer/artifacts/dist`` and clean: remove the
      ``tmp\`` folder and its contents.

   Current folder loadout at this stage:

   ::

      /rpm/$ARCH
          /{BUILD,RPMS,SOURCES,SRPMS,SPECS,TMP}
          /etc
          /usr
          /var
          wazuh-indexer-min-*.rpm
          wazuh-indexer.rpm.spec

``build.sh`` and ``assemble.sh`` reference
------------------------------------------

The packages' generation process is guided through bash scripts. Below
is a reference of their inputs, outputs and code:

.. code:: console

   scripts:
     - file: build.sh
       description: |
         generates a distribution package by running the appropiate Gradle task 
         depending on the parameters.
       inputs:
         architecture: [x64, arm64] # Note: we only build x86_64 packages
         distribution: [tar, deb, rpm]
         name: the name of the package to be generated.
       outputs:
         package: minimal wazuh-indexer package for the required distribution.
     
     - file: assemble.sh
       description: |
         bundles the wazuh-indexer package generated in by build.sh with plugins, 
         configuration files and demo certificates (certificates yet to come).
       inputs:
         architecture: [x64, arm64] # Note: we only build x86_64 packages
         distribution: [tar, deb, rpm]
         revision: revision number. 0 by default.
       outputs:
         package: wazuh-indexer package.
     
     - file: provision.sh
       description: Provision script for the assembly of DEB packages.
     
     - file: baptizer.sh
       description: generate the wazuh-indexer package name depending on the parameters.
       inputs:
         architecture: [x64, arm64] # Note: we only build x86_64 packages
         distribution: [tar, deb, rpm]
         revision: revision number. 0 by default.
         is_release: if set, uses release naming convention.
         is_min: if set, the package name will start by `wazuh-indexer-min`. Used on the build stage.
       outputs:
         package: the name of the wazuh-indexer package.
